News - Date: 23 June 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 15The mood was sombre and gloomy, with mourners engulfed by grief and in clear pain,&nbsp;during the funeral service of Khodani Matshinyatsimbi Mathivha of Muledane.The funeral&nbsp;was attended by hundreds of residents and people from the surrounding villages.&nbsp;Traditional leaders, among them Chief Bethuel Rantsana of Muhotoni, pastors&rsquo; family and relatives of the murdered woman were also there.Mathivha (26), a mother of two, died a gruesome death last week in what is believed to a ritual murder. Her body was found with some parts missing at Maungani, outside Thohoyandou. Her death sent shockwaves through the Vhembe area, which has become synonymous with ritual killings in recent times.Emotions and grief ran high during the funeral, with the mother of the deceased having to be taken to hospital after collapsing. Many relatives and friends cried openly during the funeral.Speaking during the funeral service, Thulamela Ward 36 Cllr Joseph Nemalegeni said they were worried and hugely disturbed by the state of affairs where people just went missing and were later found dead. &quot;This is not the first incident in the village.&nbsp;Not long ago, another resident was killed and some of his parts removed. We are tired as residents and I urge all of you to stand up and&nbsp;together fight the scourge that is threatening to wipe us out.&rdquo;The deceased&#39;s best friend, Ms Nana Mukwevho, urged girls to change their lives and focus on education. &quot;Our lives are not that exemplary and with so many bad things happening, we as women&nbsp;become vulnerable and exposed to brutalities. I am making an appeal to women, including myself, to mend our ways and turn to God before something bad happens,&quot; she said.On behalf of the family, Mr Muvhango Matshinyatsimbi said the family was in sadness, following the untimely death. &quot;We still had high hopes that she would grow up and work for her children. The way she died left us with sore hearts and it will take a long time to heal, but we will never forget what happened. As a family, we are still wondering and trying to figure out what happened,&quot; he said.The deceased&rsquo;s aunt, Ms Nkhumeleni Mathivha, said killers had&nbsp;robbed them of a valuable member of the family. &quot;We need answers as to who killed her and why she was killed.&quot;Meanwhile, the police have not arrested any person about the killing and investigations are continuing.&nbsp;The deceased, Ms Khodani Matshinyatsimbi Mathivha of Muledane.The coffin is being taken from the hearse to its final resting place during the funeral.Pastors and mortuary staff conduct&nbsp;the burial at Muledane.The Mathivha and Matshinyatsimbi family after unveiling Khodani&#39;s tombstone. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: