News - Date: 25 June 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 561Traditional healers under the umbrella of the Vhembe Traditional Health Practitioners have distanced themselves from the scourge of ritual killings that has overwhelmed the Vhembe region.On Tuesday, the healers, under the leadership of Maine Vho Mbulaheni Mbilivhili Neluvhola, gathered at the Thohoyandou Indoor Centre. The meeting started with a peaceful march from the venue to the local justice offices in Thohoyandou where they handed over a memorandum detailing their grievances.The healers, clad in their regalia, performed some rituals before they marched to the offices.Neluvhola said the march emanated from their concern about the continued killing of people for ritual purposes, the disappearance of people, most of whom are found murdered, and the abuse of women and children and other crimes in the district.He said he was&nbsp;very concerned because when people got killed, traditional healers were the main culprits even if they were not involved. &quot;We are concerned as healers, the killing of people for muti purposes is negatively affecting our calling.&rdquo;He added that when a person was killed, many believed a traditional healer had&nbsp;prescribed human parts. &ldquo;We are to put the record straight.&nbsp;We do not prescribe human parts,;we use roots as prescribed by our ancestors. Those who use body parts are not part of us, they are fakes who will in no time be exposed.&rdquo;He asked all to work with police and &quot;expose all the murderers&quot;.Neluvhola further indicated that they were handing a memorandum to justice as a matter of showing their concern. &quot;We are very disturbed as to what is happening. The&nbsp;police are doing their part but, the justice system is failing us when they release those involved. We need the justice system not to give bail to those involved and for those found guilty of such offences to&nbsp;be given harsh sentences.&rdquo;&quot;We only use herbs as prescribed by our ancestors,&quot; says Maine Vho-Mbulaheni Neluvhola, displaying the different herbs during their meeting.Traditional healers, led by their president, Maine Vho-Mbulaheni Neluvhola, march to the justice offices in Thohoyandou to hand over their memorandum.Maine Vho Mbulaheni Mbilivhili Neluvhola (in leopard skin) perform&nbsp;some rituals before the start of their meeting. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: