News - Date: 08 June 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1062In our previous edition, Limpopo Mirror ran a front-page story where it was mentioned that Mr Ayubbhai Mohmedbhai Multani was a suspect in a kidnapping case involving a 19-year-old Muhotoni scholar. It was further reported that Multani had been arrested, appeared in court and was released on bail.It came to&nbsp;Limpopo Mirror&#39;s attention that the report was incorrect and that Multani was not the man that had been arrested in connection with the case. What apparently caused the confusion is the ownership of the alleged getaway car used by the abductors. Preliminary investigations stated that the number plate of the alleged getaway car seemed to indicate&nbsp;that the vehicle belonged to Multani.It was later established that Multani had sold the vehicle a long time ago. The car is still in&nbsp;his name and that led the community to suspect that he was involved in the drama. The new owner could not change the ownership, as he still owes Multani an amount of money.The confusion further deepened when community leader and businessman Ayub Madina, who shares the same name as Multani, was suspected of also being involved in the kidnap drama.Last week&rsquo;s story in the Limpopo Mirror focussed on the plight of Mr Ayub Madina who became the victim of false accusations. His businesses were attacked and he was only saved by the swift action of the local police.According to the police, Mohammed Sharif Patel (28), a Mutale businessman,&nbsp;appeared in the Mutale Magistrate&#39;s Court on 22 May and bail of R3 000 was granted to him. He again appeared in&nbsp;the Thohoyandou Magistrate&#39;s Court on 23 May and the case was postponed to 10&nbsp;July. He is still out on bail.Limpopo Mirror would like to apologize for the error, confusion and the damage it caused to Mr Multani. Multani maintains that he is a humble and law-abiding person who has never been convicted of any crime.Mr Ayubbhai Mohmedbhai Multani - he was not arrested in connection with the kidnapping of a&nbsp;19-year-old Muhotoni scholar as was reported last week. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: