News - Date: 26 June 2017Written by: / Viewed: 510Four graduates who successfully completed their degrees at the University of Limpopo through the assistance of the Musina Municipality&#39;s mayoral bursary fund&nbsp;were acknowledged in a packed Madimbo Community Hall last Thursday.The students have also been offered work contracts and placed in various sections of the municipality.Emelda Muleya, Evans Matundu, Ephraim Ramadwa and John Mulea completed&nbsp;BCom (Accounting),&nbsp;BSc (Life Sciences), BCom (Economics) and LLB degrees respectively.Mayor Mihloti Muhlope said in the past five years, the municipality had&nbsp;produced a total of ten graduates who had&nbsp;been placed in various departments within the municipality. &ldquo;We are presently assisting 11 students with full bursaries with their studies in various institutions of higher learning. During our new financial year, which starts on 1 July, we will be spending R1,3 million to assist students identified from needy families.&rdquo;She added that education was one of the priority areas of Musina Municipality. &ldquo;As council, we agreed that no child from Musina will not go to school because of poor financial background. That is why we are working with our stakeholders to identify indigent learners who are doing well but lack financial resources to further their education. The good thing is that when these students complete their studies, they come back and develop the community of Musina, thereby adding value to the growth of our municipality. This clearly demonstrates that we are not spending our money in vain.&rdquo;She said the importance of education today was very clear. &ldquo;Our own reconstruction and development effort, the renaissance of the entire continent and our successful interaction in the global village&nbsp;depend largely on the progress we make in educating our communities. Education is key in creating a better society that is dynamic and productive because it can unlock the potential that lies within us all. Good education will provide our children access to our country&#39;s rich and diverse culture, its history and an understanding of their place in the world. Education offers opportunities to gain insight into the best that has been thought, said and done.&rdquo;One of the graduates, Ms Emelda Muleya, thanked the municipality for coming to her rescue since her family could not afford to send her to university.Musina Mayor&nbsp;Cllr Mihloti Muhlope&nbsp;congratulates John Mulea, Ephraim Ramadwa and Emelda Muleya, who completed their degrees at the University of Limpopo with the assistance of the Musina Municipality mayoral bursary fund. The fourth graduate, Evans Matundu, was not available when the photo was taken.Email: