News - Date: 14 June 2017Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 578The Institute for Rural Development at the University of Venda and the Murongwe Enrichment Project jointly hosted the South African Heritage Ambassador, Ms Tando Songwevu, and nine students from Michigan State University at the Univen Sports Hall on Tuesday.It was part of the students&rsquo; research tour to gain knowledge of the Vhavenda and Vatsonga culture.&nbsp;The group also took part in a heritage symposium with the theme A peek at our rich Vatsonga and Vhavenda heritage.Songwevu said that there was a need to keep on sharing ideas to develop best practises and techniques to preserve cultural heritage, cultural awareness and cultural understanding. &ldquo;As the world develops and evolves, it is important that young scholars from Africa are aware of their African roots and issues around culture and spirituality. Let us feed the youth of today the knowledge we want them to take to the future. Let us bring back the black pride. Black people are the best assets in Africa.&rdquo;Ms Hadiya Knight, a third-year BA Music student at Michigan State University, said that she learnt a lot about clothing, culture and food. She also shared the stage with one of the local artists, Mrs Naledzani Netshirembe.&rdquo;According to her, the foods are mouthwatering and the traditional costumes very different from her country. &ldquo;I also enjoyed the natural landscape,&rdquo; she added and said that she had bought a doll and some bracelets.One of the exhibitors, Ms Florence Muthige of Nyandano Co-operative, said that the event provided her with an opportunity to sell her products. &ldquo;If I was at home, I was not going to get money. This event is a lifesaver,&rdquo; she added. She sells products such as minwenda, gwana, musisi, Venda dolls, decoration balls and beadwork.Malende dancers in action during the conference.Ms Tando Songwevu delivers her speech during the event.The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students&#39; newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.Email: