News - Date: 03 June 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1273The scourge of ritual murders, kidnappings and disappearances of people in Vhembe is fast reaching alarming proportions. Not a week passes without reports of missing persons, and this has sent shockwaves through the community with people wondering who will be next to be killed.It is widely believed that many are being killed for their body parts, which are used for muti. In a very short space of time this year, many people have gone missing. Some were fortunate enough to be found alive, while some unlucky ones were found murdered and buried in bushes.The killings have negative repercussions all around, with angry communities blaming the police for the upsurge of these crimes, saying they are not doing their job and are not arresting the culprits. Overwhelmed by anger, residents have gone to extremes and are in some instances taking the law into their own hands by killing identified suspects and burning the property&nbsp;of those fingered in such crimes.Last week, incidents of burning&nbsp;were reported at Tshibvumo and Muhotoni outside Thohoyandou, where angry residents left a trail of destruction by burning houses, businesses and vehicles. Muhotoni residents embarked on violent protest action, angered by the kidnapping of a 19-year-old scholar, Rudzani Munyai. He was abducted in the early hours of last Monday while on his way to school.He was drugged and blindfolded and fortunate to survive.&nbsp;He was eventually found in the bushes at Tshikundamalema, some 50 kilometres away from his home. Since then, the residents have said enough is enough and vowed to clean their villages of ritual murderers.For two days, life came to a standstill and learners missed classes because of the protests, during which roads were barricaded with rocks, burning rubble and other objects. As if that was not enough, they burnt two houses belonging to so-called prophets in the village, whom they suspect of involvement in the kidnapping of the schoolboy.A Thohoyandou-based businessman was arrested after being implicated in the kidnapping. He appeared in&nbsp;the Thohoyandou Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Tuesday. Outside court, hundreds of angry residents from Muhotoni and surrounding villages were protesting the granting of bail to the suspect at Mutale. Outside court, community leader Hiskia Nemukula said they had come to court to show their displeasure because the man had been granted bail.&ldquo;We are angry that a man who is accused of such a heinous crime walks out of jail on bail. We want the bail cancelled as we feel justice has not been done. We will not be safe if this man is out on bail,&quot; he said.The court started very late and this also angered the residents, who had gathered since morning for the man&rsquo;s appearance. During a brief appearance, the suspect, Mohamed Muntali of Thohoyandou, had his case postponed to&nbsp;10 July, while he is out on bail of R3 000.The traditional leader at Muhotoni, Chief Lavhelesani Bethuel Rantsana, who was present in court, said he was very disturbed by the developments in his village. &quot;We are here to make a statement that we will not allow ritual killers in our area. Killers will not have a place to hide in our village, and as community we should work together with the police to bring the culprits to book. At the same time, we appeal to our youth not to engage in criminal activities as that could dent and destroy their future,&quot; he said. He said ritual murders gave a bad name to the community&nbsp;and hampered development.Meanwhile, the recent state of affairs has also angered King Toni Mphephu Ramabulana, who summoned several stakeholders to his residence at Dzanani last week . They were given strict instructions to go back to their communities and work&nbsp;with them, so that the scourge stops.In another incident last week, residents of Thohoyandou Block F, who were later joined by shoppers, protested in the town of Thohoyandou. All businesses and services came to a complete halt, with roads barricaded by burning rubble and other objects.&nbsp;The residents were complaining about the granting of bail to a man who resides in Thohoyandou Block F. The man has been implicated in the kidnapping case that happened at Muhotoni recently.Limpopo police spokesperson&nbsp;Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe called for calm and encouraged communities to work together with the police to arrest those involved in the killing and disappearance of people. He cautioned those who are involved in taking the law into their own hands, however, that they would meet the full might of the law as well.The town of Thohoyandou came to a standstill last week, with roads and shops closed.Residents of Muhotoni, led by their traditional leader, Chief Bethuel Rantsana (left), protested at the gate of the Thohoyandou &nbsp;Magistrate&#39;s Court during the appearance of the man&nbsp;alleged to have kidnapped a scholar from Muhotoni.&nbsp;Burning tyres at Thohoyandou Block F, residents were protesting against Indian businesspeople, saying they were involved in ritual killings.A house belonging to a &#39;prophet&#39; at Muhotoni was set alight by angry residents. He was pointed out as being involved in the recent kidnapping drama that happened in the village. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: