News - Date: 05 June 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1311A library is a place where people go for gaining knowledge, doing assignments and reading a variety of books.The Thulamela municipal area has become a no-go area for many who used to frequent it, because of the nauseating smell that has turned the place into something like a badly operating sewage plant. On entering the premises, one is welcomed by the flowing mess that emanates from the ground just at the main door of the library.Sources close to the place say the situation has&nbsp;been like that for quite some time and that they have complained about the mess, but that it was not attended to. Some claim that the situation has&nbsp;been so bad that they no longer frequent the place where they used to write their assignments and do other academic work.Workers at the library are also worried about the situation, but are helpless as they fear their supervisors.During a recent event at the premises, the mayor of Thulamela, Cllr Mushoni Tshifhango, and his management team turned a blind eye and passed as if nothing was happening, while many of those who attended were complaining about the state of affairs. Some were taking photographs of the sewage that has turned the area green from the algae growing there.&quot;This is&nbsp;very sad;&nbsp;this place is used by many people daily and there is no way that officials cannot notice this. Someone is not doing his or her own job and it is embarrassing and shameful that this has been ignored for quite a long time. This implies that the situation is bad out there at places that are not in&nbsp;the eyes of the people. Our government is failing us and compromising our health,&quot; said a resident who preferred to remain anonymous.The Vhembe District Municipality, the water authority in the area, said they could not be held accountable for the leaking sewerage. Mr Matodzi Ralushai, the municipality&rsquo;s spokesperson, said the library was private property belonging to the Thulamela Municipality. &ldquo;We are not aware of the leak and we do not know if Thulamela asked assistance for the sewerage to be repaired, but we will check,&rdquo; he said.The sewage that is just at the door of the Thohoyandou library and&nbsp; that has been leaking for some time. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: