News - Date: 03 June 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1520An elderly resident of Madombidzha Zone 2, Mr Laki Maluma (64), died on Saturday after he was allegedly strangled by his wife.Details of the alleged murder are still sketchy. According to the police, the husband suspected that his wife was having an affair. It is said that the man sought refuge at his brother&rsquo;s place and approached the traditional court for help after complaining about having problems with his wife. They were supposed to have reconciled during a family meeting that was scheduled to take place.Mr Girson &rdquo;Skilo&rdquo; Mauluma, younger brother of the deceased, arrived on the scene shortly after the incident had occurred. &ldquo;This is a sad day indeed. It is happening at a time when people are solving of their differences&nbsp;&hellip; Had I known, maybe I could have done something to avoid this situation. We are very saddened as a family,&rdquo; he said.Tshilwavhusiku police spokesperson&nbsp;W/O David Nkanyane&nbsp;confirmed the incident. &ldquo;We have opened a murder case against the wife. She is to face charges as soon as she recovers from hospital,&rdquo; he said.Human Rights champion&nbsp;Bardwell Mufunwaini of Mmunna Ndi Nnyi Men&rsquo;s Forum (Who is the Real Man) condemned the incident and warned community members not to resort to violence when solving their problems. &ldquo;Violence has never been a solution to a problem, but what is needed is to seek professional assistance whenever a couple experience&nbsp;problems.&quot;Rebecca Maluma is facing a murder charge and she briefly appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Wednesday. Her case was postponed to the 6th of June for further hearing and a bail application. Maluma will be buried on Saturday at Madombidzha.Mr Laki Maluma.Rebbeca Maluma.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za