News - Date: 02 June 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1248Senior traditional leader&nbsp;Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli&nbsp;lambasted killers and abusers of women and children, saying they did not deserve to live among people.This was during his outreach programme at Tshikhudini, which falls under the leadership of Vhamusanda Vho-Muzila&nbsp;Maraganedzha outside Thohoyandou.The event, held on Saturday at Tshikhudini Primary School, was attended by many members of the community, traditional leaders, structures in the community, business sector and Vhembe district executive mayor Cllr Florence Radzilani, who was guest speaker.Mphaphuli&#39;s warning comes amidst the spate of ritual murders, kidnappings and incidents of mob justice that have become so rampant in the Vhembe area.Speaking during his visit to the village during a day dubbed Tshikhudini Day, Mphaphuli, who has 76 Chiefs under him, said he was satisfied with the speed at which the government was dispensing services to his subjects in the village.He said he went around the village and found that there was water and electricity with only a few streets that were not accessible. He thanked mayor Florence Radzilani for the job she was doing for his communities.Mphaphuli turned to the burning topic of murders that are ritually motivated, saying they had&nbsp;become an obstacle to development. &ldquo;I have observed with dismay the ever-increasing number of people who became victims of ritual killings, crime perpetrated against women and children and mob justice. We are saying as traditional leaders that those found to be involved in these heinous acts will not have a place in our villages&rdquo;He appealed to all who have evidence on such cases to share it with police, instead of involving themselves in mob justice.A businesswoman, Ms Lucia Netshituni of the Netshituni Bus Service, said that they would continue supporting worthy causes in the community. She called on the traditional leaders to involve them as businesses in community activities.Cllr Florence Radzilani urged all residents to play a role in developing their own areas. She urged all government employees to work with passion and not just draw salaries for nothing. She said that government was doing its best, sometimes with limited resources, to uplift the lives of its citizens. The leaders are, however, disappointed that infrastructure is destroyed by the same people they were built for.&nbsp;She also urged parents to teach their children to be responsible people and not vandalise their own property.Guests were entertained by energetic dance artist&nbsp;Sister Bozah, who played songs from her latest album and left many asking for more. There were also traditional dance groups that performed during the event..During the event are photographed, from left to right, Ms Lucia Netshituni, &nbsp;Cllr Florence Radzilani, Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli and the traditional leader of Tshikhudini, Vhamusanda Vho-Muzila Maraganedzha.Vhamusanda Vho-Muzila Vusulusani Maraganedzha (left) greets Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani during the event at Tshikhudini Primary School on Saturday. Between them is Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: