News - Date: 04 June 2017Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 968Two orphans, Una&nbsp;(12) and Trevor Tshioma (17), along with their guardian, Ms Dorah Tshioma (69), smiled with joy when they moved into an RDP house. The three of them had to live in a dilapidated shack for many years.The mother of the two children died seven years ago, leaving them to try and survive in a worn-out shack. Here, at Tshikuwi village in Nzhelele, they lived for several years. When the winter winds blew&nbsp;it was cold and during the summer rains it was wet.Community members who were concerned about the plight of the children then alerted the local ward councillor, Mr Mbulaheni Magada. They encouraged Magada to try and help the children and their grandmother, who took on the role of guardian.&ldquo;Through the Makhado Municipality, I contacted the Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs, who assessed the living conditions of the two children and their grandmother and approved the RDP house as an urgent matter,&rdquo; Magada said. Construction work on the house started early in March and the project was completed in April this year.&ldquo;We are very happy now that we have a house of our own,&rdquo; said Ms Dorah Tshioma. &ldquo;Living in a shack, where rainwater reached you in the night, was really frustrating. Now my grandchildren have enough room to sleep and a place to do their school work without any disturbances. I want to thank Cllr Magada, the Makhado Municipality and Coghsta, for making sure that my grandchildren and I enjoy the benefits of service delivery.&rdquo;The local traditional leader, who happened to be the beneficiaries&rsquo; neighbour, Vhakoma Vho Merriam Ramalamula, said that she was relieved that the children could finally move into a house of their own. &ldquo;The fact that they now have a house brings joy to our hearts,&rdquo; she said.Ms Dorah Tshioma used to live in this shack with her two grandchildren.Cllr&nbsp;Mbulaheni Magada (left) visited Ms Dorah Tshioma, who smiled with joy after receiving an RDP house. Also in the picture is Tshioma&#39;s granddaughter, Una Tshioma.Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror&#39;s youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first&nbsp;book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life&nbsp;was published in 2014.Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com