News - Date: 26 August 2017 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 5491 The science wizz kid of Mbilwi Secondary School,  Anza Tshipetane, who recently represented South Africa at the Science Olympiad in London, is back in the country. The 18-year-old girl from Tshisahulu outside Thohoyandou won the disadvantaged schools and the best girl in science categories, which earned her a two-week study tour in London. On her first day back at school this week, the bright but very humble girl had a very busy day sharing her experiences. For years, the high-riding Mbilwi Secondary School in Sibasa, Limpopo, which has consistently achieved good Grade 12 results, has also been producing science Olympiad winners. The school has produced many learners who have gone out to represent the country in the global space, among them Prof Tshilidzi Marwala, who is now principal of the University of Johannesburg. Hamandishe Mathivha won the competition three times from 2013 to 2016. According to the principal, Mr Cedric Lidzhade, the school has achieved so much and is regarded as the best school in the Limpopo province. "We have lost count of the awards the school has won and the many products we produced who are making an impact in the country and around the world. We are a hardworking school and it is not surprising that we have achieved this much," he said. He further indicated that the recent winner's achievement was a very good motivation for learners "that no matter what your background is, you can still achieve and compete with the rest of the world." He said what was most encouraging was the fact that the girl was from a deep rural area and was being raised by a single mother. "We are very excited as a school that she came back heavily armed with new science information to share with the whole school," said Lidzhade. About the visit, Anza Tshipetane said the trip was an eye-opener to her. "The two-week trip to London where I attended the London International Youth Science Forum afforded me the opportunity to mix with experts and professors from around the world, where we shared experiences. I had the chance to interact with other learners who are passionate about science, and attending the forum also gave the assurance that even though I might be from a rural village, I am of international standard." She added that it was the best thing to have happened in her life. Mbilwi's science master, Anza Tshipetane, arrived back from London last week. In the photo she is welcomed by the principal, Mr Cedrick Lidzhade, and deputy principals Ms Banu Sankaran and Mr Ronald Nndodeni Sikhitha on her arrival at school.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: