News - Date: 26 August 2017Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 1467A young mother, Molvin Tony, is grieving over the tragic death of her five-year-old daughter who was knocked down by a car while crossing the main road.A Grade R pupil at Muhlurhi Primary School in Njhakanjhaka, Sthembiso Promise Mkhavele, was staying with her family in an RDP house in Hlanganani. She was one of the 426 primary school pupils who had to attend schools in nearby villages, because they had no school of their own.&ldquo;She was from school, and a car knocked her to death,&rdquo; said a distraught Tony. &ldquo;As usual, I had bathed her in the morning and sent her off to school with other pupils. I only got the news that my daughter was knocked down by a car on her way back home in the afternoon.&rdquo;She stated that in her entire life she had not cried like she did on 10 August. It was hard for her to accept the death of her only child. &ldquo;I think the department must build a school for us, otherwise more children are still going to die while crossing the road,&rdquo; she said.Promise was laid to rest on 17 August in Hlanganani. Her death, however, has&nbsp;since fuelled a strike and demonstrations in the area, where residents barricaded the R578 road in a bid to bring the Department of Education&rsquo;s attention to their plea for a primary school in the village.Meanwhile, the department&rsquo;s spokesperson, Dr Naledzani Rasila, said that although they sympathised with the affected family, they could not build a new school as a matter of urgency in the village. &ldquo;They need to send a proposal for a school to us and then we&rsquo;ll follow the right channels to consider their application,&rdquo; Rasila said.The Waterval police&#39;s spokesperson, W/O Foster Rambau, confirmed the incident and said that the child was hit by an unknown motorist, who then fled the scene. &ldquo;We request members of the public to assist us with information that may lead to the identification and arrest of the suspect in this case,&rdquo; Rambau said.Sthembiso Promise Mkhavele was knocked down by a car&nbsp;while crossing the main road.A young mother, Molvin Tony, is grieving over the tragic death of her five-year-old daughter.Sthembiso Promise Mkhavele was knocked down by a car&nbsp;while crossing the main road.Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror&#39;s youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first&nbsp;book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life&nbsp;was published in 2014.Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com