News - Date: 04 August 2017Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 817The family of Prince Chauke (30), one of the two soccer fans who died at the FNB stadium stampede last Saturday, are still devastated and finding it hard to believe that he is no more.The stampede took place during the Carling Black Label Derby match between Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs. Although investigations are under way, it is suspected by several people that the stampede could have been caused by the selling or usage of fake tickets at the venue.Chauke from Mabondlogweni village Ha-Bugeni next to Elim was one of the two fans who lost their lives in the stampede. Ms Veronica Chauke (34), the victim&rsquo;s sister, described the incident as painful and unacceptable. &ldquo;It is not easy for us to believe. This is so much stranger than a death caused by a vehicle accident,&rdquo; she said. She described her brother as someone who loved people. &quot;He always put others first and he was always laughing.&quot;Chauke went to the game as a driver of his father&rsquo;s minibus, which was transporting Kaizer Chiefs supporters of the Sabie branch in Mpumalanga to the stadium. &ldquo;He used to transport the fans to Johannesburg when big games like the Soweto Derby took place,&rdquo; she added.Chauke is survived by his father, two sisters, fianc&eacute; and five-year-old son. &quot;I feel sorry for his son. He is still young and he still needs love and care from both parents,&quot; Ms Chauke said.&ldquo;The incident is unfortunate as solid security plans were put in place in conjunction with the SAPS and various stakeholders to ensure that this was a risk-free event,&rdquo; the CEO of Stadium Management South Africa, Mr Jacques Grobbelaar, told reporters after the game on Saturday.The stampede happened at Gate J during the match. Several people were injured and taken to hospital.Due to the fact that the family was waiting for the post mortem results, no funeral arrangements for Chauke were&nbsp;available when going to press.Mr&nbsp;Prince Chauke (30). Photo supplied.Maanda &nbsp;Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently &nbsp;a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology.He is passionate about current news and international affairs.He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.Email: Maandabele@gmail.com