News - Date: 31 March 2017Written by: Wikus Lee / Viewed: 149&ldquo;To expose the alarming rate of crime in South Africa, I have decided to share my disturbing experience in the hands of ruthless criminals,&rdquo; said well-known local journalist and correspondent of&nbsp;Limpopo Mirror, Ndivhuwo Musetha.&nbsp;He escaped death by a whisker, when he was attacked in his house at Tshilamba early on Saturday morning.In an interview from his bed at the MediClinic in Polokwane, he said that the incident took place between 01:30 and 02:00. His wife heard a noise coming from the kitchen in their house, where they were sleeping with the children and their cousin.He said that when he went through the passage to investigate, &ldquo;I met a thug who stabbed me in my left eye with a sharp instrument. This was done without any provocation or any exchange of words. Another thug also hit me on the right side of my neck with a heavy object.&rdquo;He said that his wife was right behind him and that he somehow had the strength to grab the one who stabbed him on his trousers. &ldquo;They tried to fight me, but the second one stormed out of the house after realizing that my cousin was coming to help us.&rdquo;Musetha added that the one that he was holding also forced himself out of the house. At that stage, they were wrestling outside the house and the thug then called his friend to help free him. According to Musetha, the other thug was reluctant to get closer, &ldquo;maybe for fear of being identified.&rdquo;Musetha said that he and his cousin then succeeded in pinning the thug down and the second one then decided to give up on his friend and ran away. &ldquo;After a while, the neighbours came and I moved away from the thug we were pinning down. As I tried to walk, I then realized that I was too weak, maybe because of the loss of too much blood.&rdquo;His elder brother and wife then drove him to the Block G clinic. As his whole face was covered in blood, he could not even see where they were going. He was stabilised at the clinic and sent to the Polokwane MediClinic by ambulance. Before they left, two police officers assisted him to open a case against the suspect they had apprehended.At their arrival at the hospital in Polokwane, an eye specialist was called in and Musetha&rsquo;s eye was operated on immediately. According to Musetha, the three-hour operation was a success and the specialist told him that his eye will fully recover. &ldquo;The doctor, however, told me that in his 35 years as an eye specialist, he had never worked with such damage in an eye.Musetha was discharged from hospital on Tuesday afternoon and he hopes to resume his normal duties as soon as possible.He extended his thanks to all the support he received from family, friends, neighbours and colleagues.&nbsp;&ldquo;My special thanks to Matodzi Ralushai, Dr Naledzani Rasila, Chester Makana, Nyambeni Mandiwana, Rofhiwa Ratshilumela, Nkoleleni Makuya, Alex Ndou, Thendo Takalani and his wife, Dr Buthane, colleagues at the Limpopo Mirror, executive mayor Florence Radzilani, Ndivhiseni Mulondo, Kenny Mathivha, Norman Phophi, Dr Phophi Ramathuba, Wilson Dzebu, Nthambeleni Gabara, Nyarai Kachere and Mashudu Netsianda, &nbsp;my close family members, all colleagues and friends, including those on Facebook for all your support.Musetha said that the two attackers are probably from Zimbabwe, as they were speaking Shona. According to his knowledge the man they have apprehended is in police custody at Tshilidzini. When going to press, the police could, however, not supply Limpopo Mirror with any information regarding a possible case or court appearance.In conclusion, Musetha added that his experience made him realize that crime is getting out of hand in this country. &ldquo;One wishes that there will be a dialogue about this before it is too late, as it is already late. If we don&#39;t seek a solution for a problem, the problem will find a solution for itself. People are crying, let&#39;s give them an ear,&quot; he pleaded.Mr Ndivhuwo Musetha.Musetha&#39;s eye after the operation.Email: