News - Date: 27 March 2017Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 23Over previous months cases of&nbsp;xenophobia made headlines in several places in South African when foreigners were allegedly terrorised. To stop xenophobia, the University of Venda hosted a campaign to fight against it last Wednesday.The rector, Prof Peter Mbati, condemned xenophobic attacks and emphasised unity and living in harmony within and outside Univen campus. &ldquo;We stand here today, united in our diversity, to signify that xenophobic actions, threats or statements will never be tolerated at Univen. We also signal that no discrimination on any basis, including nationality, gender, religion, or sexual orientation, will be ever tolerated at Univen,&rdquo; he added.He further reminded the students about the importance of diversity. &ldquo;One of the central themes of our transformation process is diversity. The preamble to the South African Constitution emphasises that the people of South Africa believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, united in their diversity. Our country is blessed with a uniquely diverse, multicultural society.&rdquo;The director of international relations, Mr Cornelius Hagenmeier, echoed Prof Mbati&rsquo;s views and added that they would not tolerate xenophobic attacks. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m delighted that many of you are here, so that we can overpower it and continue to stand together united&rdquo;.The president of the student representative council, Mr Mandla Shikwambana, emphasised the importance of unity in any environment and strongly opposed any kind of violence related to hatred caused by the origin of certain individuals. &ldquo;Tomorrow you will be working somewhere;&nbsp;would you be happy if you are treated the same way? Let&rsquo;s treat each other with respect,&rdquo; he added.The president of Univen&rsquo;s international student union, Ms Mokgadi Kgotlhane, condemned the rise&nbsp;of violence against foreign nationals. &ldquo;We are not here to steal your girlfriends and boyfriends.&nbsp;We are not here to steal your jobs;&nbsp;we are not here to steal your rooms;&nbsp;we came in peace.&rdquo;&nbsp;Students hold high&nbsp;the flags of different countries and embark on a march to show their fighting spirit and unity against xenophobia. &nbsp;The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students&#39; newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.Email: