News - Date: 03 March 2017Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 692The Musina-Makhado area has been declared&nbsp;a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) said Premier Chupu Mathabatha during his State of the Province Address held in Polokwane on Friday, 24 February.He said that the SEZ would attract investments of more than&nbsp;R44 billion. &ldquo;The SEZ will create about 20 800 direct jobs,&rdquo; he added. He further said that the private sector continued&nbsp;to play a major role in an effort to put Limpopo on a higher trajectory of economic growth and development. &ldquo;Together with the private sector, we have identified 10 major projects for investment, worth about R46 billion. This will go a long way towards helping us to expand the productive capacity of our economy,&rdquo; he added.According to Statistics SA&rsquo;s year-on-year analysis, a total of 103 000 people who were unemployed in the fourth quarter of 2015 had secured employment by the fourth quarter of 2016. &ldquo;We are pleased that Limpopo has recorded the second-highest employment gains. In the fourth quarter alone, Limpopo has managed to create 64 000 new jobs. Jobs gained were mainly in the areas of construction, mining and agriculture. With this increase in employment in Limpopo, the rate of unemployment has also reduced to 19.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to 19.8 percent during the same period in 2015,&rdquo; he said.He further said that they would&nbsp;sustain and improve the job-creation path and economic-development trajectory by positioning the Limpopo Economic Development Agency (LEDA) as a leading entity. &ldquo;They must play a&nbsp;central role in growing, developing and transforming the economy of our province,&rdquo; he added.He said that they would ensure that the poor&nbsp;have the environment, services and skills to improve their lives. He also encouraged the people to work together. &ldquo;Let us work in unity for the good of our province and its people. Let&#39;s make Limpopo a better place to live in,&rdquo; he said.The Premier of Limpopo, Mr Chupu Mathabatha, addresses the people during the State of the Province Address held in Polokwane last Friday. Photo supplied.The people were all ears during the State of the Province Address in Polokwane last Friday. Photo supplied.The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students&#39; newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.Email: