News - Date: 11 March 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 64Several top achievers in the Soutpansberg West Circuit were given awards last week for their outstanding performance during the 2016 matric results. The event took place at Madodonga Christian Worship Centre.Teachers and pupils were awarded trophies and certificates in recognition of their outstanding performance. Awards were presented in different categories, which included the circuit&rsquo;s best learner, teachers who produced a 100% pass rate in their subjects, the most improved school, best-performing school and schools that produced quality results.The award for the school that showed the most improvement&nbsp;went to Swobani High. Three schools that obtained a 100% pass rate, Tshirululuni, Willmary and Swobani, were also acknowledged during the event. Sinthumule High was awarded a trophy and a certificate for producing the most bachelor passes.The Soutpansberg&nbsp;West&rsquo;s circuit manager, Ms Christina Ramovha, emphasized that it was important to acknowledge the various schools&rsquo; leadership, teachers and pupils. &ldquo;This ceremony serves as a motivation to our teachers and pupils. It is a way of recognising their good work during the past academic year.&rdquo;&ldquo;We hope to do better this year. Together, we as circuit administrators, school-governing bodies and parents&nbsp;should double our efforts to get the teachers fully committed to support learners,&rdquo; she said.The guest speaker at the event and also a circuit manager of Hlanganani North, Mr George Mathivha, told pupils how they had defeated the odds to become successful in life.&nbsp;He said the pupils could&nbsp;only succeed if they worked hard, planned well and remained focused. The role models&nbsp;included engineers, businessmen and medical doctors from rural villages around the area, and all had a similar story to tell.&nbsp;&ldquo;One can succeed despite one&rsquo;s background,&rdquo; he said.Mathivha encouraged the parents to cooperate with the Department of Education and other stakeholders for the benefit of education in the country. He said it was important to set realistic goals that could be achieved within a given period in life. &ldquo;Failure does not necessarily mean that one has to stop pursuing your dreams,&rdquo; he said.The principal of Sinthumule High, Mr&nbsp;Khathutshelo Badugela.Mr Scara Tshigomana, principal of Swobani High,&nbsp;received two awards. The trophy was for the most improved school and the certificate for a school who produced a 100% pass rate.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za