News - Date: 25 March 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 426The life of a royal woman, Ms Khwathelani Rammbuda, which has been one of squalor and that of a beggar after her husband, a well-known traditional leader, allegedly&nbsp; left her for another wife, is about to change for the better.Rammbuda (42), mother of a girl and who stays at Mukumbani Luaname outside Thohoyandou, was awarded R7 500 monthly maintenance by the Thohoyandou Magistrate&rsquo;s Court last week, after a long battle to try and get Thovhele Kennedy Tshivhase to take care of her and her child. She maintains she was married the traditional way and lobola was paid for her by the Tshivhases in 1985.In an interview after the court&rsquo;s decision, Rammbuda said life had not been the bed of roses for her and her child that people might have thought it to be. &ldquo;After being married, I could not go straight to him, and everything was done through an intermediary, Ms Grace Tshikota, who would get all our needs from Tshivhase. Tshikota passed on in 2014, and that was the turning point of things as he started ignoring us and not providing for us.&rdquo;She added that life had been very bitter for them &ldquo;and not long ago a big tree fell on our house and he did not even bother to repair it for us. We could not just fold our arms while we suffered, and after exhausting all avenues, including a meeting with social workers at his Damani house in 2014 , he promised to take care of us but did not. Then we decided to approach the courts and the decision was in our favour.&rdquo;According to her, the daughter was firstly awarded R2 000 last year in a separate matter and Tshivhase must take care of all her educational needs. She further said that the victory in the court gave her courage &quot;and hope that nobody is above the law.&quot; She said there were many at royal families who were being treated shabbily but were keeping quiet, afraid of the positions their husbands held in society.&ldquo;I am not after his money, but because I am one of his wives, I need to enjoy the benefits that come with being a royal wife. I went to court to pave the way for others in this situation, so that they have a shoulder to cry on at our courts. I am happy that the law has finally taken its course,&rdquo; she said.Tshivhase was not in court when the verdict was made, and his legal representative, Mr Anton Ramaano of Anton Ramaano Attorneys in Thohoyandou, represented him. Limpopo Mirror phoned Thovhele Tshivhase and he said that he had briefed his lawyers with the intention of appealing against the judgment. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t leave this as it is. This is not about maintenance, but chieftainship squabbles in the family,&rdquo; he said.Mr Ramaano confirmed they had lodged an appeal. &ldquo;We are very positive that the outcome of the appeal will be in our favour,&rdquo; he said. Rammbuda was represented by Adv Joseph Themeli.Ms Khwathelani Rammbuda with a court order she got from the Thohoyandou Magistrate&#39;s Court against Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase.Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase.The house where Rammbuda stays, which Tshivhase has allegedly been neglecting&nbsp;for a long time. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: