News - Date: 11 March 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 153Despite the fact that 2016 was a year characterized by total shutdowns and violent protests by residents&nbsp;who are refusing to be part of a new municipal&nbsp;entity that will merge them with Malamulele, pupils in Vuwani performed exceptionally well.One school, Edison Nesengani, achieved a 100% pass in Grade 12 and the Vhuronga 1 circuit was the best circuit in the district and the province.During an event at the Faith Mission Church in Vuwani, achieving teachers, pupils, principals and officials received cash, trophies and certificates in recognition of their hard work. Primary schools were also rewarded.The best learner in the circuit, Rabelani Netshifhefhe, who is doing her BCom Accounting at the University of Johannesburg, also received a special award from the Baso Foundation.A retired Univen lecturer, Prof Philip Kutame, told learners that they were faced with a big challenge. &ldquo;Your predecessors have set a very high standard. They showed where Vhuronga 1 circuit belongs. It has been a tough year for all, but we are here today, celebrating excellence.&rdquo;The circuit manager, Mr Itani Mafune, said it was a team effort that allowed them to score big as a circuit. &ldquo;We had a difficult year last year, but because of the dedication on the part of educators and pupils, we rose to the occasion and did well.&nbsp;This really calls for celebrations,&rdquo; he said.Mr Hendrick Sadiki, a mathematics teacher from Edison Nesengani Secondary, said the award he received was a real motivation. &quot;In most cases, teachers who make learners succeed are not even mentioned. We did our work, sometimes doing evening classes for the benefit of the learners.&rdquo;&nbsp;Mr Cartson Honwana, deputy manager governance in the Department of Education, receives his award from Prof Philip Kutame for his leadership skills.The best mathematics teacher, Mr Hendrick Sadiki (right), receives his award from Vhuronga 1 Circuit manager&nbsp;Mr Itani Mafune.Some of the educators who received awards, photographed with officials and sponsors during the ceremony.Vhuronga 1 circuit manager Mr Itani Mafune (fifth from left) displays his award during the function. On the left is Prof Phillip Kutame. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: