News - Date: 10 March 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 323Damage estimated at more than R700 000 was caused when a bus caught fire in Sibasa early on Monday.More than 20 students and workers escaped unharmed in the incident. The bus, owned by Omega Bus Services, was on its way from Ha-Mukoma Asina Nndu and had dropped off passengers in Thohoyandou. It was completely gutted by the mysterious fire.The bus was transporting passengers to a local college and Sibasa. A witness who was standing at a nearby bus stop said he saw smoke coming from under the front wheels when the bus drove past them. &quot;We thought it was the bus&#39;s brake pads, but we could not notify the driver as he drove past. A short distance away from us we saw smoke coming out of the bus,&quot; the witness added.Bus driver Phineas Maluleke said he drove a distance, picking up passengers without any problem. &quot;Many of the passengers alighted in Thohoyandou and more than 20, who were mostly students, remained in the bus. Just as we were about to enter Sibasa, we heard a loud bang that was followed by&nbsp;heavy black smoke in the bus.&rdquo;He added that there was a commotion&nbsp;as everyone evacuated the bus, and luckily no one was injured in the mayhem. He further indicated that he phoned his employers, who told him to open the bonnet of the bus, which was already on fire by then.He added that firefighters arrived at the scene, but the fire, which had spread very fast, had consumed the whole bus. &quot;I have never come across this in my driving career. I am still in shock, but praise God for saving me and my passengers,&rdquo; he added.The owner of the bus, Mr Pandelani Mathivha, said that he is happy that no one was injured during the incident. He said that they suspect an electrical fault and that the damage was possibly more extensive because most of the body of the bus was manufactured from fibreglass, which burns easy.He also mentioned that they had&nbsp;been in the business for nearly 30 years and had a good fleet and well-trained drivers to take care of the passengers.Thohoyandou police spokesperson&nbsp;Capt Takalani Malogwa confirmed the incident. No docket was opened, but the incident was recorded, he added.Assessing damage at the scene where the bus was&nbsp;completely gutted by a mysterious fire.&nbsp;The burnt-out bus. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: