News - Date: 12 March 2017Written by: News Correspondent / Viewed: 96The community of Musina Skoonplaas is mourning the death of a well-known baker and small-business owner, Mrs Nnditsheni Elisa Mmbengeni.She was the darling of customers at the now defunct Oasis Bakery in Musina because of her exceptional skill&nbsp;to bake bread, scones and cakes. She died at the age of 61 in the Musina Hospital after falling sick. She was buried at Tshandama village, near Tshilamba, during an emotional funeral service.All the speakers at the funeral described Mmbengeni as a cheerful person who wouldn&rsquo;t even hurt a fly.&nbsp; Her eldest son, Godfrey Mudau, said the family was devastated to part ways with someone who had done her best to provide for her dependents. &ldquo;We were still mourning the passing of our father Joseph, who died late last year when my mother left us. This has really affected us as a family, but we have to soldier on because life should go on.&nbsp; We will miss our mother dearly because she was one of the best parents in the world. When our father passed on, she bravely took over and became a father and mother at the same time. She was a legend in her own right.&rdquo;Mudau thanked family, friends and community members who supported them during the difficult time. &ldquo;This simply indicates that my mother was a people&nbsp;person. Indeed, she received a dignified send-off that fits her selfless lifestyle.&rdquo;She was born on 12 April 1956 in Brits, North West. She then moved to Maraxwe village, near Matangari, in 1975 with her grandparents. Though she did not go further with her schooling, many people described her as a naturally intelligent person who encouraged dozens to be educated.&nbsp; After marrying her husband, Joseph Mudau, they moved to Musina where they stayed and work for a long time. She is survived by seven children and 10 grandchildren.Family members pay tribute at the graveside of Nnditsheni Elisa Mmbengeni shortly after her burial at Tshandama village.Pallbearers carry the casket containing the body of Nnditsheni Elisa Mmbengeni during her funeral at Tshandama village.&nbsp;Correspondent journalists&nbsp;from all over the region supply us with news and sport articles.&nbsp;Email: news@zoutnet.co.za