News - Date: 04 March 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 877Community builder, counsellor, taxi owner and staunch member of the United African Apostolic Church&rsquo;s (UAAC)&nbsp;Mrs Sara Ratshibaya (71), who died a fortnight ago after a short illness, was buried at the Madombidzha cemetery on Saturday.Thousands of mourners from different parts of Limpopo attended the funeral. Mourners described her as a woman of humour, respectful, friendly, very humble and a dedicated community builder. Her funeral was characterised by the blue and white regalia of the church and the beating of drums, in line with the Zionist beliefs.Her son, Mr Victor &ldquo;Maradona&rdquo; Ratshibaya, described his mother as &quot;an angel who brought up her children with love and affection. We wipe our tears, because we know that she served the Lord every minute of her life,&quot; he added.He said his mother&rsquo;s death had left a big void in the family. &ldquo;She was everything to us and she was our main source of inspiration,&rdquo; he said. He said she was a visionary and good leader who loved all people without discriminating or taking sides. &ldquo;For me she was like a friend and not a mother, because we shared ideas,&rdquo; he added.A representative of the UAAC, Vho-Elisa Miriri, described her as a pioneer, a born leader and a woman of vision. She said the whole community gathered with heavy hearts&nbsp;because she had been influential in the area. The family, church and community were in great pain after losing a respected beloved.She urged all to follow the good example left by Ratshibaya. &quot;She had a vision to complete the house of God. I urge all of you, especially the children, to complete the project in order that her soul will rest&nbsp;in peace,&rdquo; she said.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Senior church members photographed at the funeral.Women of the United African Apostolic Church surround the coffin to show respect.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za