News - Date: 10 September 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 46The Vhangani Primary School in the Vuwani area could be one of the most impoverished rural schools in the area.Against all odds, the school has managed to produce people who are making an impact in different fields. One of its most celebrated products is Chief Livhuwani Matsila, who is regarded as one of the most developmental traditional leaders in the country.Having created more than 500 jobs for his subjects through sustainable projects, he has become a beacon of hope for most rural communities. His dedication and zeal to develop his community have&nbsp;attracted the attention of people from far and wide, including the recent visit by Inkosi Nkosinathi Maphumulo from the Zulu Kingdom in Kwazulu Natal.Many other people have visited the area to learn and share experiences with the visionary chief. On Thursday, Matsila hosted learners from Vhangani Primary School.&nbsp;Two buses full, accompanied by their teachers and SGB members, descended on&nbsp;the royal palace, where the chief took them on a tour of the different projects under him.Among the projects visited are&nbsp;the chicken farm, game farm, pottery plant and livestock farm.School principal&nbsp;Mr Bernard Bopape&nbsp;said the school had&nbsp;an arts and culture program funded by the national lotteries board and they felt they should take the children to a project dealing in crafts. &quot;This is an ideal place for pupils to see things being done. They see these things in shops and some do not even know that they are done by hand.&rdquo;The children also had the chance to learn more about agriculture.When addressing the group, Chief Matsila said he felt humbled that his former school had visited him. He motivated the pupils and told them everything was possible in life but that one should be educated to get the good things in life.Chief Livhuwani Matsila shows&nbsp;an item of pottery to a pupil&nbsp;during their tour of his projects. The principal, Mr Bernard Bopape, is on the left in&nbsp;the photo.Teachers, Chief Livhuwani Matsila, principal Mr Bernard Bopape and SGB members pose for a photo with pupils during a tour of the Matsila projects. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: