News - Date: 03 April 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 353Limpopo&#39;s provincial TB ambassador, Ms Avhakholwi Netshidzivhani, is a beacon of hope for those&nbsp;suffering from the disease.Last year she was attacked by a serious bout of TB and could not even walk. She&nbsp;took her medication with dedication, however, and is on the road to recovery. Netshidzivhani (33) of Makwarela outside Thohoyandou addressed thousands of residents from all over Limpopo during the World TB Day commemoration held at the Makonde Sports Ground outside Thohoyandou on Friday.The event was attended by representatives from the government, traditional leaders and many members of the community.Netshidzivhani said that she was diagnosed with the disease in 2016. &ldquo;I have been sick for sometimes not knowing what could be troubling me. I could not even walk until I went to a clinic in Gauteng.&rdquo; She was referred to North Rand Hospital and was admitted for four weeks. With the treatment she received and her regular use of the prescribed medicine, she is on the road to recovery.She indicated that people should not wait until it was too late but should be tested, so that they could start early with their medication.The MEC for Health, Ms Phophi Ramathuba, also brought a message of hope, saying that TB was&nbsp;not a death warrant, but that it was up to the individual to choose life by testing for the disease and other diseases. She attacked religious leaders who recommended to patients that they stop&nbsp;taking their medication after praying for them. &ldquo;You should know we had a victory in court against the pastor who had been spraying congregants with Doom. We heard that he said he would continue spraying them.&nbsp;Please report this to us and we will have him arrested. Anybody who disturbs the health of my patients is against me,&rdquo; she said.She urged residents to test for different diseases, including TB, for the sake of their lives. &nbsp;She commended Netshdzivhani for coming in the open and encouraging others to be tested and take their medication.Local traditional leader&nbsp;Chief Tshilidzi Ravhura said he felt honoured that the event was held at his village. &ldquo;Many of our subjects are not aware of the dangers of these diseases. Now that the department came to their doorstep, many a life will be saved and we urge them to pass on the message to those who could not attend,&rdquo; he said.Limpopo&#39;s TB ambassador, &nbsp;Ms Avhakholwi Netshidzivhani (right), photographed with the MEC for Health, Ms Phophi Ramathuba, while Vhembe district health director Ndwamato Sirwali looks on. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: