News - Date: 29 April 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 301A four-year-old toddler is lucky to be alive after falling into a pit toilet at Mbhokota last Friday (21st). The toddler&rsquo;s cries were heard by a community member, who summoned help.The community member, who preferred to remain anonymous, said that he went to use the toilet. &ldquo;I heard the tiny voice of a crying baby coming below the ground, so I called an elderly person, who alerted the community. It had just stopped raining,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;It was shocking and unbelievable. Other neighbours assisted and the concrete slab behind the toilet was gently removed. Luckily there were police officers from the Waterval police station nearby. They monitored the incident and the child was handed to one of them,&rdquo; he said.Ms Nomsa Maluleke, the toddler&rsquo;s mother, said that the young Lulama went out of the yard into the street to play with other children from the neighbourhood while she was busy cooking at home. She explained that when she did not see her after some time, she thought that the girl had gone to play.&ldquo;I searched around the neighbourhood for the missing girl,&rdquo; the mother said. Police officers who arrived also assisted the community in the search. It was a great relief to everyone involved when the toddler was found. The girl was taken to Elim hospital for a check-up and treatment.The spokesperson for the Waterval SAPS, Foster Rambau, warned residents to close all open holes and pits in their surroundings carefully, as these could pose a danger, not only to children, but also to old people.The relieved&nbsp;mother, Nomsa Maluleke, with her daughter, Lulama, who was rescued from a pit toilet.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za