News - Date: 29 April 2017Written by: Wilson Dzebu / Viewed: 163The newly installed traditional leader of Masea village, headman Jeremiah Ntikedzeni Nemasea, has vowed to work hand in hand with the Musina Municipality to bring development to&nbsp;his village.Nemasea was inaugurated by senior traditional leader&nbsp;Thovhele Hanyani Tshikundamalema of the Tshikundamalema dynasty at a glittering traditional ceremony at Masea village, near Madimbo, on Saturday.Nemasea takes over from his late father, headman Ntodeni Michel Nemasea, who passed away in 2007. Vho-Makhadzi Florence Nemasea was leading the village on an acting basis since 2007 until the heir to the throne, Ntikedzeni, was installed on Saturday.Thovhele Tshikundamalema said the new leader should work hard to fight challenges in relation to unemployment, poverty and crime in his village. &ldquo;You must also respect your subjects and treat them equally, without discrimination. The way you conduct yourself will determine your respect by your community. Make sure that you put the community&rsquo;s interests before yours.&rdquo;Tshikundamelema advised the new headman to stay away from corrupt activities. &ldquo;Money is the root of all evil and make sure that you acquire it in transparent ways. If you become corrupt, it means that the whole village will be corrupt because they look upon you as their role model. Leadership is all about faithfulness and you must always remain faithful at all times.&rdquo;He told the headman to solve village matters in consultation with his council. &ldquo;You have a very good and supportive team of makhotsimunene and dzikhadzi who are prepared to stand by you until the end. You only have to come to me if there are complex issues that you cannot resolve in your village.&rdquo;Representing the Musina Municipality, Chief Whip Fistos Mafela said the installation of the new leader in the village would assist in speeding up service delivery. &ldquo;The Musina Municipality values traditional leaders very highly and they are an important stakeholder to us. We welcome the new traditional leader and we will work with him to bring a better life to his subjects as required by legislation. We will always visit him and invite him to attend service delivery meetings of the municipality.&rdquo;Headman Ntikedzeni acknowledged the advice from Thovhele Tshikundamalema and committed to working with Musina Municipality to develop his village.The newly installed headman of Masea village, Jeremiah Ntikedzeni Nemasea (left), photographed with Thovhele Hanyani Tshikundamalema and Musina Municipality&#39;s Chief Whip, Cllr Fistos Mafela (right), shortly after the inauguration ceremony.Email: