News - Date: 09 April 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 109Police officers of the Makhado SAPS gathered at the Clouds End Hotel last Thursday, to bid farewell to two of their colleagues, Col Magala Rambau and W/O Leonard Nemavhidi. Both men recently retired.Rambau served for 37 years in the police service and started his career in 1980 at the Tshitale SAPS. He was later transferred to Banderlierkop, Levubu and Thohoyandou and the Vhembe head office before he was stationed at the Makhado SAPS. &nbsp;Nemavhidi served for 39 years and was stationed at Benoni, Thohoyandou, Vleifontein and Makhado during his period of service.Many of their colleagues who were present at the farewell function described the two as hard workers and committed police officers.The Station Commissioner of the Makhado SAPS, Col Nyelisani Mabatha urged her fellow police officers to work very hard as well as further their studies. She said that police should be inspired by Col Rambau who, in the last 10 years, furthered his studies and acquired a degree in management, despite his looming retirement.&ldquo;Police should be proud of their profession and the work they are doing to restore the dignity of their profession,&rdquo; she said. Mabatha indicated that the contribution by the two in the struggle for quality public policing will always be remembered. She said that they will be missed and that the present policemen must follow in the footsteps of these two.Photographed during the&nbsp;event are from left to right Col Willy Munyai, Lt-Col&nbsp;Jaco Steenkamp, Col Nyelisani Mabatha, W/O Leornard Nemavhidi, Lt-Col Magala Rambau, Ms Elizabeth Rambau and Lt-Col Monica Nemavhola.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za