News - Date: 27 April 2017Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 101The Minister of&nbsp;Rural Development and Land Reform, Mr Gugile Nkwinti, praised the Ravele Communal Property Association (CPA) for good management of the communal farms.The communal property association is situated in Levubu, which falls within the Makhado Municipality&#39;s area. Nkwinti visited the farms on Sunday. The farms were given back to the Ravele community through the Land Restitution Programme.&quot;As government, we encourage other communal property associations to follow in their footsteps,&quot; said Nkwinti. He emphasised that farming forms part of the cornerstone of the economy of the country. He motivated the communal property association to work even harder to make sure that they maintain their produce level or even upgrade of what they could produce now. The Ravele CPA produces macadamias, avocados and bananas. They export those produces to the international market.The mayor of the Makhado Municipality, Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi, said that the farms were contributing positively to&nbsp;local economic development in the municipality. She added that it was good to see that the farm had created employment for&nbsp;the local community, who was&nbsp;now able to put food on the table.&quot;The kind of the work which the communal property is doing is really good and we are happy as government to see the communal property association using the land for a good cause,&rdquo; Sinyosi said. &ldquo;We are really touched and impressed by the work of the Ravele CPA. We want to witness more of such good work, even in other communal property associations in the Makhado municipal&nbsp;area.Chief Nndwakhulu Ravele acknowledged the minister&#39;s visit and said that the farms had created over 1 200 permanent jobs.&nbsp;&nbsp;In the photo are (from left to right) the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform, Mr Gugile Nkwinti, Makhado Municipality&#39;s mayor, Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi, and&nbsp;Chief Nndwakhulu Ravele. Photo supplied.Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror&#39;s youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first&nbsp;book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life&nbsp;was published in 2014.Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com