News - Date: 22 April 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1240Only a week ago, the situation had returned to normal in the trouble-torn Vuwani, where residents are fighting against their inclusion in a new municipal entity that includes areas of Hlanganani and Malamulele.On Monday, it took a different turn when, during a short meeting, residents decided that a total shutdown should be imposed in the area. The residents, who had planned to hold a meeting at the local Nandoni Sports Ground, were told the gathering was illegal as they did not have permission to hold such a meeting. They moved to the nearby Vuwani Science Resource Centre, but were prevented from holding such a meeting there.There was heavy police presence with police officers posted strategically around the town of Vuwani.Leaders of the Pro Makhado Task Team tried in vain to convince the police to allow them to hold the meeting. The police maintained that the meeting was illegal and that the crowd had to disperse peacefully. Their leaders urged them to behave in a peaceful manner during the shutdown. Just after the announcement, some angry residents started barricading roads and pelting vehicles with stones. Police had their hands full trying to locate those involved in the stoning of cars.On Tuesday, the situation was still tense with many vehicles stoned by angry residents in the area. There were virtually no activities in town, with no schooling in the villages.The spokesperson for the Pro Makhado Task Team, Mr Nsovo Sambo, said the shutdown will be peaceful and indefinite until government comes with a solution.Meanwhile, the ANC in Limpopo, which has been quiet about the situation in Vuwani, had called on residents in the area to let children go back to school and let life return to normal. The organisation&rsquo;s secretary, Mr Nox Seabe, said they have started consultations with structures in the area and that the talks are showing results.In a statement, the Pro Makhado Task Team reacted with annoyance to the calls by the ANC Limpopo. &ldquo;The Pro Makhado Demarcation Task Team have noted with shock the existence of the ANC Limpopo which has been non-existent for the past two years, and with disappointment on their utterances which were recently made regarding the position maintained by Vuwani residents. We further request Cosas to refrain from making utterances without authority. All the affected schools in Vuwani have no affiliation or membership with Cosas and we therefore request them to stay on their lane and not become puppets of the ANC propaganda,&rdquo; the Task Team said.According to the Task Team, the leadership in Vuwani considers the rights of all the citizens equally and all are treated with equality. &ldquo;Furthermore, the Task Team condemns all the criminal elements and acts of violence which are manifesting themselves as they do not represent the views of the Vuwani residents. We appeal to the law enforcements agencies to maintain their strong presence within the area and our members to refrain from these criminal elements,&rdquo; he said.Meanwhile police in Vuwani are investigating a case of culpable homicide which occurred on Tuesday night along one of the local roads in the Vuwani area. It is alleged that three people were traveling in a sedan and their vehicle crashed into one of the pipes that was used to barricade the road. The vehicle went up in flames. Limpopo police spokesperson, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe, said two people burnt to death and one was taken to hospital with serious injuries.&ldquo;We have opened a culpable homicide case and the process of identifying the deceased is still on. The police investigations are continuing.&rdquo;Motorists are advised to drive with caution especially during the night, because there might still be some barricades on the roads and because of the volatility of the situation, the possibility of stones being thrown at passing vehicles from the bushes cannot be ruled out.Ngoepe further indicated that by Tuesday, six vehicles were damaged by people throwing stones from the bushes and cases of malicious damage to property were opened. No arrests have been effected yet.&ldquo;The South African Police Service has done maximum deployment in the Vuwani area to protect all the community members and properties during these disruptive actions and will continue to monitor the situation until normality returns,&rdquo; Ngoepe said.Heavy police presence around the area.Residents entering the Vuwani Science Resource Centre for the meeting that did not take place.Pro Makhado Demarcation Task Team leader Arnard Mulaudzi urging the residents to disperse peacefully after they were denied permission to hold the meeting.The aftermarth of the previous shutdown -&nbsp;litter everywhere as it could not be picked by the municipality.The deserted town of Vuwani.&quot;100% Makhado&quot;. Grannies seen arriving at the venue where the meeting was supposed to be held.&nbsp; Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: