News - Date: 15 April 2017Written by: News Correspondent / Viewed: 89&ldquo;Dzembe lo vhuyelela mufhinini&rdquo; (the hoe has been fitted back to its original handle). These were the words of the senior traditional leader of Makonde village, Musanda Vho-Edward Ravhura, implying that things have gone back to normal.He spoke during the inauguration of Nthuseni Ravhura Marubini as the new junior traditional leader (Vhakoma) of Makonde-Thongwe on Saturday. Thongwe is a sub-village of Makonde under the senior traditional leadership of Musanda Vho-Edward Ravhura.History has been recorded, as Thongwe did not have an inaugurated junior traditional leader after the death of the incumbent, Marubini Andries Ravhura in 1970. Petrus Mphedziseni Marubini Ravhura was appointed to act until he also passed on in 1997. Ntakuseni Marubini Ravhura, commonly known as Tsolela, then acted in the position until his death in 2006. Since 2006, Tsolela&rsquo;s sister, Fulufhedzani Marubini, has been acting until the Ravhura Royal Council decided to inaugurate Nthuseni on Saturday.During the event, which was attended by traditional leaders, representatives of community structures and hundreds of villagers of Makonde, Mulaifa Marubini was announced as ndumi and Joyce Midiaifani Marubini as khadzi.Musanda Vho-Edward Ravhura advised the new junior traditional leader to focus on community development, as Makonde has been declared an economic nodal point of the Thulamela Municipality. &ldquo;Make sure you work with community structures to bring development in this sub-village. Your 300 households still need recreational facilities, a high school, a clinic and electricity supply extensions. Please, make sure that you take good care of the poor and the vulnerable so that God can bless you abundantly.&rdquo;Much to the delight of the guests, Musanda Ravhura quoted from the book of Proverbs, chapter 31, verse 3 to the new junior traditional leader which reads: &ldquo;Don&#39;t spend all your energy on sex and all your money on women; they have destroyed kings.&rdquo; He continued: &ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t read that verse on a daily basis, you are creating a recipe for disaster throughout your reign as a junior traditional leader.&rdquo;He urged the new leader to respect his subjects and stay away from corrupt activities. &ldquo;A good leader serves his subjects with distinction and never involves himself in corrupt activities. Treat all your subjects equally and serve them without discrimination. This will make your ancestors happy and your subjects will also respect you in return. Try to resolve all the petty issues with your council and only come to me to give reports and to elevate complex issues that you cannot resolve.&rdquo;When accepting his new role, Nthuseni agreed that he will follow in the footsteps of his forefathers. &ldquo;I will rule my subjects with fairness and I will always consult my council and the family whenever I take decisions. I will work hard to bring more development to this village,&rdquo; he said.Senior traditional leaders, Edward Ravhura of Makonde (left) and Thinawanga Mmbangiseni Randima of Khubvi (right) congratulate Nthuseni Ravhura Marubini shortly after he was installed as junior traditional leader of Makonde-Thongwe.Correspondent journalists&nbsp;from all over the region supply us with news and sport articles.&nbsp;Email: news@zoutnet.co.za