News - Date: 23 April 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 81Chief Thusalushaka Mafenya Mphaphuli of Malavuwe outside Thohoyandou has urged the members of the Mulalo Zion Apostolic Church of Southern Africa to continue upholding the African culture.He was the guest speaker during the closing session of the church&rsquo;s annual national conference at the church&rsquo;s headquarters at Malavuwe on Sunday. The conference started on Friday and different activities took place throughout the Easter weekend.He commended the church saying it is one of the few remaining churches that still upholds the African culture and values. &ldquo;We commend the steadfastness shown by the church in spreading the true gospel as it was in the beginning. We are proud to be associated with this church that respects authority. Please do not deviate from what you believe in and we also commend the good leadership that has taken the church to this great height,&rdquo; he said.Presiding bishop, Bishop Isaih Simba, said it has become a tradition in the church to meet during Easter and worship together. He said the church was founded in Alexandra, Gauteng by Archbishop Abel Simba and since then the church has grown in leaps and bounds.Cllr Tshimangadzo Malada, the acting Thulamela mayor, commended the church for the good work it is doing in the community. &ldquo;There is no one above God and we all need prayers for our things to run smoothly.&rdquo; He said that the different structures of government need peace to do their duties. &ldquo;The church is preaching peace and we strongly believe that from here we will all leave being changed and full of the Holy Spirit,&rdquo; he said.Bishop Isaih Simba (left with gown), Chief Thusalushaka Mafenya Mphaphuli and acting Thulamela mayor, Cllr Tshimangadzo Malada, greeting the congregants on Sunday.Church leadership, guests and Chief Mafenya&#39;s khadzis during the closing session of the conference. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: