News - Date: 08 April 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 302The mayor of the Musina Local Municipality, Cllr Mihloti Muhlophe said the opening of the new R320 million Musina Mall will not only create many jobs, but also stimulate economic development.She officiated during the official opening of the mall last Thursday and emphasised that the town has been declared one of the provincial growth points and a special economic zone by national government. The new mall now stretches over 34 000 square metres with an additional 99 retail outlets. There are also new banks at the mall.The event was attended by officials from the municipality, business representatives, the Moolman Group (owners), Investec Property Fund and many community members.Officially opening the new mall, Cllr Muhlophe said the event has stirred a lot of excitement and the prospect of creating jobs was seen as being a priority. &ldquo;During the construction period, the mall project created approximately 500 job opportunities to the formally unemployed local community members,&rdquo; she said. She added that an additional 630 jobs have been created to the locals who will be working at the mall.She said that the mall is situated close by and that residents will no longer have to travel long distances to far-away towns. &ldquo;They can walk from the township to the mall for an exciting shopping experience,&rdquo; she added.Muhlophe further commended the construction team for keeping and meeting their deadline. Investec Property Fund CEO, Mr Nick Riley said they are humbled to be part of the development taking place in Musina. &ldquo;So much has been achieved since we first opened here in 2010. It is a huge credit for Musina and Limpopo to attract economic investment in this growing metropolitan and to acquire support for economic initiatives such as this mall,&rdquo; he said.The local community and residents from the neighbouring farms took advantage of low opening specials at the new mall. &ldquo;This is really good for our community. We are happy that our municipality brought everything to our doorstep,&rdquo; said a local resident, Ms Mavis Kabanda.Investec Property Fund CEO Nick Riley, Mayor Mihloti Muhlope and Moolman Group CEO Mr Pieter Lombard cutting the ribbon, marking the official opening of the mall.Part of the new mall at Musina.The CEO of the Moolman Group, Mr Pieter Lombard, Mr Nick Riley, CEO of Investec Property Fund and the Musina mayor, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, unveiling the plague.Doing a walk around the new shops are owners of the mall and Musina mayor, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: