News - Date: 10 April 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 100A hundred poverty-burdened families in Muledane, who can hardly afford a decent meal, received a lifeline when a Muslim group of businesspeople from around Thohoyandou recenlty donated basic groceries to them.The donation came about through interactions between the group and businesspeople, Cllrs Tshitereke Nelushi, Edward Nemalegeni, Sabelo Magatshavha&nbsp;and the local traditional leader, Chief Mavhina Samuel Mahwasane.The goods, which included snacks, chocolates, biscuits, cool drinks and mielie meal, for more than 100 children took place at the royal council&#39;s offices.This is not the first time this group has extended a helping hand to needy communities. Recently they visited Maniini, where they handed over similar items to 100 needy people. They then also handed school uniforms to 59 needy learners at Tswinga.Handing over the groceries and the other goodies to the chief, who, together with the visitors, presented the donation to the residents, sponsor leader Vaheed Patel said it was out of empathy that they had embarked on a monthly programme to assist the poor. &ldquo;As a community, we started this project a long time ago with the aim of assisting those in need. We are determined to improve the lives of those less fortunate and with us a covenant with God exists that those who have should care for those who do not have.&rdquo;In accepting the donation, local traditional leader Thovhele Mavhina Samuel Mahwasane praised the group. &ldquo;These are the poorest of the poor.&nbsp;Many in this village are not working and many families are headed by children after their parents had passed on. Even though this is not enough for all the needy people, we lack words suitable enough to&nbsp;say thank you.&rdquo;Cllr Tshitereke Nelushi urged the community to support their businesses. &ldquo;These are our people, people who remember the hand that feeds them. Let us pay back by supporting their businesses, so that, in turn, they will continue assisting the lot of our people in our midst,&rdquo; he said.&quot;The youth are the foundation of the country and we should nurture them to be responsible.&quot; So said Muslim leader Mohamad Osman during the presentation of children&#39;s goodies during the same event at Muledane. With the children are the sponsors, Vho Thovhele Mavhina Mahwasane and community leaders.&nbsp;Thovhele Mavhina Mahwasane &nbsp;(fourth from right), sponsors and community leaders hand&nbsp;over groceries to the needy at Muledane. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: