News - Date: 04 December 2017 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 170 The prevalence of crime in communities and police under fire from the community they serve, as well as the fact that criminals see them as stumbling blocks in their operations, have prompted police under the Thohoyandou Cluster to seek divine intervention. Last Sunday all the different units of the police, including the mounted section with motorbikes, put up a splendid display when they took to the streets of Ha-Mangilasi with their sister departments in support of the police. Led by the cluster commander, Maj-Gen Rosina Mulaudzi and a police brass band, they marched for kilometres from the main Vuwani road at Pappas to Agape City, where a formal function was held. Speaking during the event, Mulaudzi said that they have all the tools of trade, but are still not able to eradicate the scourge of crimes like rapes, robberies, abuse of women and children and other crimes. “Thohoyandou is a very big cluster with its own challenges and we are here to say we are doing our best to curb crime, but we have found out crime keeps increasing, and we have realised that there is only one being that could save us from this web of crime and that is God.” She added that the police need to be empowered, as the festive season is just around the corner. Brig Willy Mashaba, station commissioner of the SAPS in Thohoyandou, gave festive safety tips and warned the community not to have lots of cash on them, as that attracts criminals. He advised congregants to share their stokvel money through the banks and not trees as they will be vulnerable to criminals. Addressing the congregants, Prophetess Selina Mauna thanked the police for the visit saying they were at the right place. She promised that they will always highlight the police in their prayers. Thohoyandou cluster commander Maj-Gen Rosina Mulaudzi taking her charges through a drill exhibition at Agape City on Sunday.  
	Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: 