News - Date: 17 December 2017 Written by: Frank Mavhungu / Viewed: 55 The first seven years in life are very important in shaping the personality of a human being, Thovhele Vho-Vhambelanithvhamaano Netsianda of Tsianda village told guests during a “graduation” ceremony of Mususumeli Day Care Centre at the International Assemblies of God Church hall last Saturday. He added that the future of children was determined by the way in which they were raised. He appealed to parents not to take their children to centres that are not properly registered with the relevant authorities. He revealed that he played a significant role in the establishment of the Mususumeli Day Care Centre, saying there were some people who were against its existence in the area. He said that that he was impressed by the fact that the children were taught the different traditional dances, including malende, tshikona and tshigombela, at the centre. Thirty-three toddlers received their certificates during the ceremony. According to the founder and principal of the centre, Ms Sarah Matovheka Maumela, the centre had a total of 100 toddlers this year. She said that the centre was established a year ago. Maumela stated that after retiring from the public service early last year, she felt that the only way in which she could contribute towards the development of the local community was to establish a day-care centre. Thovhele Vho-Netsianda (second from left) and the dignitaries pose for a photo with some of the toddlers. Thovhele Vho-Vhambelanithavhamaano Netsianda poses for a photo with the principal of the centre, Ms Sarah Matovheka Maumela. The toddlers from the centre render an item during the ceremony.  
	Frank is a Human Resources Manager at the Department of Public Works in Limpopo. He is the longest serving correspondent of the Mirror, having joined us at the end of 1990.  He mainly writes sports reports and resides at Tsianda Village. In 2004, Frank won the National Castle League Award, an award for the best reporter in the SAB league in South Africa.  Email: 