News - Date: 01 December 2017 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 305 Dedicated workers of the Elim Hospital received certificates and trophies in recognition of their hard work during an excellence awards ceremony held at Kone village outside Louis Trichardt a fortnight ago. During the event, 52 employees received awards in the different categories. The categories include finance, housekeeping, clinical services, maintenance, information and records. According to the hospital’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr Patrick Mabuza, they want to acknowledge employees who have put extra effort into their duties. His said that in a profession, often marred by disillusionment, poor resources and negative publicity, some nurses still manage to uphold their ethics. The guest speaker, Dr Simon Nedohe, said that the awards were given because of evidence of providing quality services to the patients. “Employees are rewarded based on what the patients perceive as good quality at the hospital. These include accessibility to care, good communication with patients, safety, comfort and prevention of clinical errors.” The chairperson of the hospital board, Mr Anderson Mudunungu said that the ceremony was considered to pay tribute to workers who displayed dedication and motivation. When receiving his award, the overall winner, Dr Edward Ramoba, said that it is indeed a very special day for him. Cllr Phineus Themba (left) is photographed with the overall winner, Dr Edward Ramoba (centre) and Mr Anderson Mudunungu, chairperson of the hospital board. Ms Tinyiko Fungeni photographed with her award as Employee of the Year. The best forensic official, Mr Daniel Manyagwe.    Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za