News - Date: 11 December 2017 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 337 The 16 Days of Activism campaign for No Violence against Women and Children was launched by government officials during a ceremony at Zamenkomste a fortnight ago. Three MECs, namely Makoma Makhurupetje (Transport and Safety), Onnica Moloi (Sports Arts and Culture) and Mapula Mokaba Phukwana, as well as mayor Shonisani Sinyosi of the Makhado Local Municipality attended the event. MEC Makoma Makhurupetje said the government supports the campaign that sought to combat gender-based violence. “Over the years, we have had to contend with the fact that incidents of abuse continue to occur, despite the existence of a progressive constitutional and legislative framework that protect women, while promoting a human rights culture,” she said. She added that the community and local police stations are active partners in ensuring local safety and security. Mrs Tamara Mathebula, of the Commission for Gender Equality appealed to men to treat women and children with dignity and respect. She pointed out that men have the tendency to abuse women and children, in the belief that this is their right because they are the man of the house. The chairperson of the Vhembe House of Traditional Leaders, Thovhele Vho-Vele Kutama called upon the community to speak out and to report all instances of abuse. He said the community members are is suffering even though there are facilities that could assist them when they have problems. He also urged communities to partner with government departments if they were to stop abuse and to assist the vulnerable children. The MEC of Sport Arts and Culture, Onnica Moloi (left), Thovhele Vho-Vele Kutama and the MEC of Social Development, Ms Mapula Mokaba Phukwana, during the launch. MEC Makoma Makhurupetje and Thovhele Vele Kutama photographed with women from different areas who attended the event.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za