News - Date: 10 December 2017 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 405 A well-known political activist was on Saturday, 2 December, inaugurated at Tshikonelo as chief of the Madzikuse area. Chief Rueben Madadzhe replaced his father, the late Vho-Khotsimunene Chief Rudzani Philemon Madadzhe Mphaphuli, who died on September 22 last year. During the ceremony, he received a new name, Ntikedzeni (support me). Madadzhe is a well-known ANC leader who has served the party in various capacities and is also a manager at the Thulamela Municipality. The head of the clan, Gole Mphaphuli, urged the new Chief to take a leaf from his late father’s book, who led the community with dignity and was deeply mourned when he passed on. Vhembe ANC chairman Tshitereke Matibe conveyed messages of support from the party. He said that they are proud to see Madadzhe assuming the position of a chief, because he was part of the people who nurtured political growth in the region. “It was not smooth sailing - you know young people can argue and rebel and he was not an exception,” said Matibe. The executive mayor of the Vhembe district, Cllr Florence Radzilana, representing all the mayors in Vhembe, said that they support his installing and hope he would work well with the government. As per tradition Madadzhe was not afforded the chance to address the gathering. He said later during an interview: “I know that according to our tradition I must take everything I was told and apply it to my people. I take the added responsibility in my life and will make sure that my community is well served. Chief Rueben Madadzhe.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za