News - Date: 03 December 2017 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 179 Pupils of Tshivhulana Primary School in Vuwani will soon be able to receive computer training, after Light Fibre Infrastructure and the Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Faith Muthambi decided to donate computers to the rural schools. The presentation took place at the school on Saturday. The representative of the donor company, Light Fibre Infrastructure, Ms Maropeng Seolonyane said that they believe that the development of the nation goes hand in hand with the availability of proper facilities. She said that it is a mistake for companies to think they can leave the development of young pupils’ education to the government alone. “These computers will assist the schools in their daily activities and it will also stress that Light Fibre Infrastructure is serious about the education of our children. The computers will obviously motivate the learners and we believe other schools will also be motivated to work harder,” said Seolonyane.  Minister Muthambi said that the donation of the computers will help in shaping the village to take another direction. She added that they are sure that the computers will help stimulate education in the region. The principal of Tshivhulana Primary school, Mr Adam Ngobeni, said that the computers will help the school and learners a lot. He appealed to other companies to follow “the giant step” taken by Light Fibre Infrastructure to plough something significant back into the community. He said the donation of the computers would enhance the pupils’ scope of learning. Jubilant pupils dance alongside Minister Faith Muthambi. Minister Faith Muthambi shows a pupil how to operate a computer. At the back are: Ms Maropeng Seolonyane (sponsor), acting Thovhele Kennedy Netshimbupfe, Mr Tinus Pretorius and another guest.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za