News - Date: 16 December 2017 Written by: Isabel Venter / Viewed: 1511 Local police arrested two suspects in Musina after they recovered five brand new vehicles that were destined to be smuggled into Zimbabwe. The vehicles were stolen in the early hours of Saturday, 9 December, from the Ford dealership in Phalaborwa. According to a police spokesperson, Lt-Col Robert Netshiunda, an unknown number of suspects broke into the dealership and managed to get the vehicle keys from the office. The thieves got away with six brand new vehicles, which included two Ford Ranger WildTraks, two Ford Everests, a Ford single-cab bakkie and a Ford Ranger double-cab bakkie. The police were quick to react and, with the help of local security groups, were able to recover five of the six stolen vehicles before the end of Saturday. Two of the vehicles were located near the Tshenzhelani Village in the Masisi-area. During this recovery, the police arrested their first suspect. Shortly afterwards, a further three of the stolen vehicles were found at the Limpopo River, on the border of South Africa and Zimbabwe. Another suspect was arrested who was allegedly found in possession of the stolen vehicles. Both the suspects, Tsununu Maphosa (31) and Mpho Dzuguda (23), appeared in the Messina Magistrate’s Court on Monday on a single count of the possession of a suspected stolen vehicle. They were not asked to plead or bring a bail application. According to Netshiunda, the police are still looking for 11 more suspects that are tied to the robbery. Netshiunda said it is believed that Dzuguda was paid to act as a guide for the other suspects and help them navigate through the villages and get to a crossing point at the Limpopo River. Maphosa was allegedly a passenger in one of the stolen vehicles. Some of the stolen vehicles were recovered at a crossing point in the Limpopo River on Saturday afternoon. Photo: Limpopo SAPS Communications. Another stolen Ford that was recovered on Saturday. Photo: Limpopo SAPS Communications. Another stolen Ford that was recovered on Saturday. Photo: Limpopo SAPS Communications. The two suspects whom the police managed to capture. Tsununu Maphosa (left) and Mpho Dzuguda (right) appeared in the Messina Magistrate's Court on Monday on a single count of the possession of a suspected stolen vehicle(s). Photo: Limpopo SAPS Communications. Mpho Dzuguda, shortly after he had been arrested by the local police. Photo supplied. Another vehicle that was recovered, unfortunately in a very bad state. Photo supplied.  Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. She holds a BA Degree in Communication Sciences from the University of South Africa. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting.  Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.za