News - Date: 11 December 2017 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 573 Firebrand Thulamela youth and community leader, Mr Justice Mphaphuli, has urged young people not to engage in unbecoming behaviour like entertaining blessers during the festive season. In an interview, Mphaphuli (36) of Tshikhudini, who was recently elected to chair the Thulamela Youth Council, said that he has been observing the behavioural change among the youth since the close of schools and found it wanting. Mphaphuli is a motivational speaker of note and founder of Educomsa, an organisation that assist disadvantaged students. He said that it is painful to see youth falling into temptations during the holidays and suffering irreparable harm in the process. “This is a very bad time for our youth who sometimes out of boredom engage in unbecoming behaviour like abusing alcohol, drugs and getting involved in unprotected sex.” He added that at every tavern and liquor outlet, youth are in the majority and some drink to such an extent that they even forget their way back home. “Some fall prey to guys who flash cash and end up having unprotected sex, which could lead to sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/Aids.” He added that it is a cause for concern, because the youth of this year must become the leaders of the future. “The worst affected are women who sometimes are tempted by the money from the guys working in big towns. Some do it because of poverty at their homes while others do it just for fun,” he said. According to Mphaphuli, the youth could use this time in creative ways and maybe engage in sport and other extra mural activities. “To the parents, please spend your hard-earned cash on something positive and do not forget that the children still need to go to school the following year. Please avoid loan sharks and budget your savings accordingly,” added Mphaphuli. Motivational speaker and community leader, Mr Justice Mphaphuli.  
	Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: 