News - Date: 24 December 2017 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 134 The Khubvi Sports Grounds was reverberating with the great sounds of the big cowhide drums, accompanied by the whistling sweet sounds of the Tshikona pipe during the Zwarine Cultural Festival on Saturday, The event, dubbed Bepha la Tshikona, is part of a year-long regular cultural festival aimed at promoting cultural performances. The organisers encourage communities to form cultural groups that will participate in such festivals. Speaking before the start of Saturday’s performances, Zwarine Cultural Promotion NPC chairperson Mr Aifheli Tshivhase said that he was very happy to see groups arriving from all corners of Vhembe District just to be part of the monumental festival. “As an organization that was formed with the sole purpose of promoting our neglected cultural performances in Vhembe, we are delighted to see such a large number of spectators and performers. It lays bare the thirst in communities where they are given a platform for cultural expression,” he said. He said the event was in line with the main theme of exploring the ethnic diversity of the three main groups in Limpopo who are all found in Vhembe District. “Our wish is to provide a platform where culture is appreciated and also to stimulate excellence, hence a competition format,” said Tshifhiwa Tshiswaise, the organizing secretary of Zwarine. “We appreciate the support we received from the National Lotteries Commission as we continue to gather cultural enthusiasts to perform in celebrating our cultural heritage,” he added. After awarding the prizes, Mr Aifheli Tshivhase said that they were going to host another festival on Human Rights Day. “This time around we will be staging this festival for another ethnic group in Vhembe,” he promised. The local traditional leader, Chief Thinawanga Randima, praised the organisers for their contribution towards the preservation of culture. “This is a step in the right direction. Our culture is being side-lined, and it is through such competitions that it can be revived. We say thumbs up to the organisers,” he said. Makhuvha group took the honours and walked away with R15 000. The runners-up, Vhutavhatsindi, took home R12 000, Makwarani ended in third spot and took away R10 000. Sheshe won themselves R8 000, with Tshifudi taking home R6 000. One of the groups in action during the competition. Second-placed Vhutavhatsindi perform during the competition. The cream of the crop, Makhuvha Tshikona's dancers in action. Group leaders, showing off their certificates for participation, pose with Zwarine officials and traditional leaders during the competition. Chief Thinawanga Randima, sandwiched by Zwarine officials Mr Tshifhiwa Tshiswaise (left) and Mr Aifheli Tshivhase with a token of appreciation from the organization.  
	Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: 