News - Date: 07 December 2017 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 216 The University of Venda (Univen) bade farewell to their vice-chancellor and principal, Prof Peter Mbati, during an event held at the auditorium last Tuesday. The chairperson of Univen’s Council, Mr Serobi Maja, congratulated Mbati for the sterling job he had done for the university. “When you took over in 2008, the institution looked like a glorified high school with very few amenities. With your dedication, commitment and unequalled love for the university, you transformed this university from humble beginnings to one of the most recognised academic institutions in the country,” Maja added. He added that Mbati has spearheaded the much-needed construction of modern lecture halls, office spaces, student residences and other infrastructure projects that compete with the best in the country. “We remain the proud beneficiaries of your efforts to lift the university from the quagmire of hopeless into sunlit pathways of hope and fulfilment,” Maja said. Prof Mbati thanked the Univen Council for giving him an opportunity to successfully complete his tenure. A former president of the Univen SRC, Ms Mashudu Nthulane, said Mbati’s leadership made Univen what it is today. “You had an open-door policy to all staff members and students. You have imparted knowledge and skills to most of us.” Ms Nthulane added. Prof Mbati’s term will end on 31 January 2018. The name of the new vice-chancellor has not been announced yet. Univen Vice-chancellor and Principal, Prof Peter Mbati. Mr Serobi Maja (left) and Mrs Shirley Mabusela (centre) present Prof Peter Mbati (right) with a gift.    The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: 