News - Date: 08 December 2017 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 20 The Vhembe District Municipality commemorated international World Aids Day at Tshakhuma last Thursday. According to the executive mayor, Cllr Florence Radzilani, they were commemorating the day with their community to try to make sure that people understand the importance of health and wellness. She said that women regularly get tested, but men fear to get tested. According to her, HIV+ men don’t really accept that they have the disease. “They don’t take treatment, and they will leave their children behind suffering,” she said. She emphasised that the community must stick together and find all positive means to prevent the spread of HIV and Aids. “No action is too small, no contribution is wasted. We must protect ourselves and those who are nearest to us. We must protect the vulnerable, we must combat the stigma and create an environment in which all can feel safe and comfortable to undergo HIV testing and be treated. The end of HIV as a public health threat is in sight.” The HIV/Aids Vhembe Health coordinator, Ms Conny Luvhengo said their aim is to raise awareness among the communities about the dangers of HIV/Aids. “We also want people to understand that being HIV+ is not a death sentence. We need to love our people with care, because my friend with AIDS is still my friend.” Speaking on behalf of traditional leaders, Vha-Musanda Vho-Tshifovhedze Madzivhandila said there is not a family that was not touched by HIV/Aids and its effects. Therefore, community members should work together in the fight against the pandemic. In the front row from left are Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi (mayor of Makhado Local Municipality), Vhembe Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani, Vhamusanda Vho-Tshifovhedze Madzivhandila and Makhado Speaker, Cllr Lindiwe Mohale.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za