News - Date: 17 December 2017 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 703 Thivhonali Tshabuse is a young woman who has dedicated her strength and energy towards helping the less fortunate in the rural communities of the Vhembe district. A resident of Dzingahe village, Thivhonali had an idea to spend her birthday in hospital with the cancer patients on 4 October 2015. From that day, which was well spent at the hospital, she initiated a non-profit organisation, I/We Care, which focusses on helping the vulnerable and give hope to the sick. “When I started the organisation, I had shared the idea with Mashudu Nemukula and Thinavhuyo Nephawe and we were later joined by Murema Rabelani, Tendani Tshabuse, Tshivhalavhala Andani, Funanani Mhlanga, Hope Nephiphidi, Mulalo Tshabuse, Siyanda Manyathi, Shaun Radebe, Paulina Maserumule, Matimba Novela, Hope Mushiana, Phathutshedzo Tshabuse and Sharon Ndou. We are a strong team of game changers in our communities. We add value to the lives of the sick and the vulnerable.” She stated that they had given hope to patients in Charlotte Maxeke Hospital and Sizwe Tropical Disease Hospital. “We also give motivational talks in schools, hospitals, children’s homes and provide school uniforms and clothes to the needy,” she said. “We have a project running where we ask matric learners to donate their shoes so that we can donate them the next year’s scholars.” She said that she was always open to helping people, because she lives according to Christian morals, norms and virtues. “I am a Christian and I strongly believe in the Bible when it says that blessed is the hand that gives,” she said. “If those who are fortunate would live by this rule we would have a better place to live in.” For more information on the activities of I/We Care, phone Thivhonali on 0721487359 or iwecaret@gmail.com. Thivhonali Tshabuse. Thivhonali Tshabuse (kneeling, left), with her colleagues (in maroon t-shirts), visit patients at the Charlotte Maxeke Hospital. Thivhonali Tshabuse has a golden heart.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com