News - Date: 22 December 2017 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 227 ANC veteran Dr Frank Chikane says he will not be deterred to speak about leadership problems and rampant corruption taking place in the country. Chikane, who is the President of the Apostolic Faith Mission International, was a guest of honour during the handing over of a R1,8 million house to Dr Muvhango Maanzwane on Saturday. The house was built by his local assembly of Shayandima AFM near Thohoyandou. Hundreds gathered to listen to speaker after speaker praising the leadership of Dr Maanzwane, who started the AFM Shayandima from scratch in a rondavel. Dr Maanzwane, who was being welcomed back to his local assembly after serving nationally and internationally for more than 19 years, said it had all been made possible through the support of people like Dr Chikane and the local leadership of Pastor Jacob Tshikomba and his team. During the same function, Maanzwane also donated about 50 pairs of school shoes to the PhalaphalaFM school uniform campaign. Phalaphala FM's programme manager, Ms Sharon Ravele, received the shoes on behalf of the SABC. Dr Maanzwane and his wife, Evelinah, had spent the better part of his 30 years of ministry work living in a shack and later a rundown house with an old Toyota Cressida as his only vehicle. On Saturday, he also received a R100 000 cheque from the church as a token of appreciation for the good work he did for his people. Speaking during the function, Chikane emphasised that the ANC conference would run smoothly, but the most important thing was the calibre of leadership it would produce. “The whole country is expecting a leadership that will not continue to plunder and loot the country’s resources. That will not be the freedom we fought for so much in our lives,” he said. Photographed during the function to welcome back Dr Maanzwana are, from left to right, Ms Kagiso Chikane, Dr Frank Chikane, Mr Jacob Tshikomba, Ms Evelinah Maanzwane, Dr Muvhango Maanzwane and Advocate Sam Tshabalala.  
	Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: 