News - Date: 16 December 2017 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 1180 In a bid to recognize curvy and shapely models, the Mudifho empire successfully hosted the Miss Venda Plus-Size pageant at Villarikhs Park, Nzhelele, on Saturday. The pageant offered the contestants the opportunity to showcase that being big is also beautiful. The founder of the Miss Venda Plus-Size pageant, Nadney Mulaudzi, said the purpose of the pageant was to cater for bigger people. "We have learnt that society has isolated plus-size girls when it comes to beauty pageants. Our primary purpose is to give them a platform to shine like other girls," Mulaudzi added. Mulaudzi further said: "We also encourage plus-size girls to love and accept themselves, love their bodies the way they are and not let society discourage and mock them. It's about building confidence." The winners were: Preshy Lyon Sibambu (queen), Tondani Sikhwari (first princess), Olindwaho Lithole (second princess and Miss Publicity), Shammah Tshiangwana (Miss Personality) and Wanga Ramuhuyu (Miss Entrepreneur). Sibambu was ecstatic to be crowned the queen. "I appreciate everyone who helped me to win for their love and support," she said.  Photographed from left to right are: Shammah Tshiangwana (Miss Personality), Tondani Sikhwari (first princess), Preshy Lyon Sibambu (queen), Olindwaho Lithole (second princess and Miss Publicity) and Wanga Ramuhuyu (Miss Entrepreneur). Photo supplied.  Miss Venda Plus-Size contestants. Photo supplied.   The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: 