News - Date: 03 December 2017 Written by:  / Viewed: 58 The people of Musina will probably never forget the spot where the late Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates legendary soccer star, Lesley “Slow Poison” Manyathela lost his life in a vehicle accident on 9 August 2003. Clerics from Musina, in partnership with the local municipality, community stakeholders and government departments gathered at the spot last Wednesday afternoon, to pray for an end to road accidents along the N1 road this festive season. The spot is approximately 28km from Musina on the N1 North between the Baobab toll gate and the Sasol garage. The manager responsible for traffic at the Musina Municipality, Mr Ailwei Mutele said the municipality cannot afford to lose more lives during this festive season. He said the spot has been identified as one of the high accident zones around Musina Municipality. “That is why we have resorted to divine intervention, because we know that our living God will hear our prayers. The Bible encourages us to ask anything from the Creator and we believe that this problem is not bigger than Him.” Mutele thanked the clerics, congregants, stakeholders and government departments who took part in the prayer session. “These people were hands-on from the first day when we prepared for this prayer session. The fact that they decided to set everything aside to attend this session proves that they are serious about this prayer. There is no doubt that our prayers will be heard and Musina’s road will again become safe to travel on.” He said his team of traffic officers will be out in full force to maintain law and order on all the roads around Musina. “We warn all traffic offenders that there will be no mercy for those who violate the rules of the road. We want to make sure that everyone is safe this festive season. We also urge those who have animals to look after them, because they are among the major causes of accidents on our roads.” Clerics, traffic officials and representatives from various government departments and stakeholders pray for an end to road accidents at the spot along the N1 road where soccer legend, Lesley Manyathela lost his life in 2003.  Email: 