News - Date: 11 December 2017 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 144 Even though the National Disability Awareness Rights month is now only history, the principal and the facilitating team at the Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School have vouched to continue to transfer vocational skills to the children with special needs. During Limpopo Mirror’s recent visit, young boys and girls, assisted and supervised by the facilitators, were busy working in fields such as carpentry, bakery, hairdressing, beadmaking and fashion design. The school’s principal, Ms Roseline Ramutshila, said that the vocational skills were all in line with the children’s special needs. “We provide a wide range of vocational studies to our children so that they become fully functional members within the communities they find themselves in,” she said. “We want them to be independent social beings in a wide society and earn an income using the skills which we provide them with here.” She added that people within the communities must refrain from acts of victimising and prejudicing the children with special needs. “We have had instances where people said our children are crazy or mad, and that’s not a true reflection of who and what they are,” she said. “They are children with special needs, and as for us who work with them here every day, we don't see mad individuals in them.” A carpenter facilitator, Mr Fulufhelo Ramabulana, said that he found joy in working with the children. “Honestly speaking, I don't think my life would have been more fulfilled as a social being if I was not working here,” he said. “I love children; they love and respect me. It gives me joy when I transfer carpentry skills to them and they grasp all the techniques in such an amazing way.” Another facilitator, Ms Ivy Buasi, said that teaching pupils on hairdressing skills was what she enjoyed most. “They are interactive and skilful,” she said. “It is always a great moment of joyous celebration in the classroom.” The principal Ms Ramutshila said that she wanted to thank all people, from educators, parents, to drivers, who are involved in the welfare of the children at the school. The carpentery facilitator, Mr Fulufhelo Sinthumule (second from right) with some of his pupils.  In the photograph, (from left to right) are Tebogo Mukwevho and Ronewa Mukatuni (pupils) and Mrs Ivy Buasi (facilitator) busy in the hairdressing class. Some products from the bakery and confectionery department of the Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School. Some products from the bakery and confectionery department of the Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School. Some products from the bakery and confectionery department of the Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com