News - Date: 08 December 2017 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 82 It was a dog lover’s affair on Saturday during the hosting of the Louis Trichardt SPCA’s Mutt Mile as part of the Gateway Christmas Market. “Thank you so much to each and every human and ‘mutt’ who came and enjoyed our very first Mutt Mile with us on Saturday! Hopefully, this too, will become an annual event on our SPCA calendar,” said the SPCA team. One and all agreed that it was an amazing day with great support from the community once again. “First of all, we would like to thank Trieks and Arno for arranging the awesome Christmas Market and allowing us to be part of this special event. Congratulations on organizing such a brilliant day with great stalls and fantastic fun and food for the whole family. Thank you to Gateway Inn for the use of their beautiful facilities too,” said the SPCA team. The SPCA also made special mention of a few people who assisted them in making their first Mutt Mile one to be remembered. These included their most loyal supporters, Oasis Water, and their cute little helpers for manning the halfway water point for them. “You did a fantastic job, as always,” said the SPCA. A thank you also went to Hennie and his team from the Soutpansberg Athletics Club for their assistance on the day, their advice and all their guidance with arranging this event. “We truly appreciate it more than words can say,” said the SPCA. A huge thank you also went to Leach Printers for sponsoring the stickers for the water bottles and Super Signs for making the extra special and unique medals. “Then last, but most definitely not least ... our super, amazing team, the committee of our SPCA. Thank you for your hard work, dedication, your drive and most of all, your absolute passion for animals. Nothing would be possible without this power team. Thank you so much to each and every one of you. Hope to see you next year for another epic Mutt Mile and fun run,” said the SPCA team. Ready, steady, go! Pet owners and their dogs set off to complete the Louis Trichardt SPCA’s Mutt Mile on Saturday. The event formed part of the Gateway Christmas Market. Photo: Louis Trichardt SPCA. Part of the Louis Trichardt SPCA’s committee members pose for a quick photo during the past weekend’s Mutt Mile. It was a team effort with committee members, their families and friends helping as marshals and manning the SPCA’s stall. From left to right are Alicia Thomas, Antjie Brennan, Lesley Gaigher and Letitia Weyers. Photo: Louis Trichardt SPCA. Bella, one of the many cute rescued dogs at the SPCA’s local kennels, gets a pep talk from Imaan Aboo on preparations of Saturday’s Mutt Mile. Photo: Louis Trichardt SPCA. Local SPCA supporters Oasis Water and their super cute helpers manned the halfway water point during the past weekend’s Mutt Mile and Fun Run. Photo: Louis Trichardt SPCA.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za