News - Date: 22 December 2017 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 317 The lack of basic equipment at clinics in the Vhembe District is seriously affecting service delivery. The problems also includes dysfunctional maternity wards and a shortage of water. Limpopo Mirror was informed last week ago that the blood-pressure machine at Thengwe Clinic has not been functioning for over a month. Reliable sources confirmed that patients who were visiting the facility could not have their blood pressure measured. The spokesperson for the Department of Health in Limpopo, Thabiso Teffo, confirmed that they had been informed about these and other problems. Teffo said that the problem seemed to be because no one was taking responsibility for maintaining and looking after the important equipment. “Yes, we got that report of a BP machine that was not working, but that problem has been resolved now,” he said. “Sometimes you will find that the battery on that machine was not replaced,” he said. Teffo said that they were in the process of engaging the stakeholders to try and find solutions. “We want to make sure that equipment gets attached to individuals, so that they can account for these machines. This will also help curb the stealing of equipment from our facilities,” said Teffo. Asked if the situation might not put the lives of patients atrisk, Teffo said nurses and doctors knew what to do to help patients whose blood pressure was excessive. On the issue of the lack of a maternity ward at the Mutale Health Centre, Teffo said that the delay had been caused by a lack of finances. The maternity ward at Mutale was destroyed in a storm a few years ago. Teffo added that the department was under pressure because many communities needed new clinics while others needed repairs. “As of now, we are busy engaging with Public Works to see how we can address these challenges,” he said. As far as the lack of water and blankets in different hospitals is concerned, especially at Tshilidzini Hospital, Teffo said that they were busy in-sourcing the laundry function in order to address this problem for good. “Remember, we have started with the in-sourcing of the kitchen; now we are going to address the laundry where our hospitals and clinics will have a centre where their laundry will be cleaned,” he said. Teffo said that they were continuously in discussion with municipalities to make sure that there was no lack of water at health facilities. He added that they used tanks to supply water during emergency periods. The blood-pressure machine is out of order at Thengwe Clinic.  Email: 