News - Date: 14 December 2017 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 96 The Southern African Macadamia Growers’ Association (SAMAC) recently conducted a crop forecast survey for the 2018 season. A figure of 56 000 tons of NIS (nut-in shell at 1.5% kernel moisture content) is estimated to be produced in 2018. “… but this is still lower than the projected long-term forecast of 57 600 tonnes in an industry that is expanding more rapidly than when the long-term projections were made, although it should be noted that a more accurate forecast can only be made at the end of January,” said SAMAC in a press release. Although the final volume of the global 2017 macadamia crop will only be known in 2018, it is no secret that it was again a world record accompanied by record prices. “Despite the 2017 global crop being the largest ever recorded it is clear that the global demand has increased substantially. Consistency of supply has been a worrying aspect of the macadamia industry, so a significant increase in volume from the largest macadamia exporting nation, is what the market needs to satisfy this growing global demand and to continue to encourage new products with macadamias,” said Mr Jens Borchert from Palm Nuts and More, a German-based macadamia importer and distributor. The final 2017 crop volumes will also be made available in January, which it is anticipated to be slightly more than 42 000 tonnes NIS. Fifty two percent (52%) of the 2018 crop is expected to be produced in Mpumalanga, followed by Limpopo (26%), KwaZulu-Natal (20%) and other regions. “A reduction in import tariffs for macadamias was announced in late November by the Chinese Government. The tariff was reduced from 19% to 12%. SAMAC has been working hard with various role players, especially in China, to facilitate a lower import duty and many months of discussions have finally paid off. This will assist the industry to remain competitive in one of its most important export markets,” said SAMAC in the press release. Fifty five percent (55%) of the crop is expected to be processed to kernel in 2018, which is more than the previous season. “The industry is well on the road to recovery after the recent drought and the 2018 season macadamia crop is looking promising. Many handlers are expanding their markets, which is a positive sign of a growing industry. The demand for macadamias remains high and we are confident that the expected higher volumes will encourage the market to further grow and develop,” said Mr Walter Giuricich, chairman of SAMAC.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za