News - Date: 22 December 2017 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 265 The issues of gender-based violence and suicides came under discussion during a multi-stakeholder, gender-based victim-empowerment campaign held at Itsani village a fortnight ago. At least five victim empowerment programmes were involved in the project, namely Munna Ndi Nnyi, Far North, Thandululo, Victorious, and Thivhulawi Substance Abuse. “It pains us as a community when a man or woman takes his or her life because of the kind of abuse from the partner,” said the deputy chairperson of Tshasahulu Sanco, Mr Michael Gumula. “Many suicides are a direct result of emotional and psychological abuse. We encourage all partners to lead a socially healthy lifestyle where love and understanding form the basis of the  relationship. So, please, stop killing yourselves!” The councillor for Ward 35 in Thulamela, Cllr Nnditsheni Mulaudzi, said that the victim-empowerment programmes were doing a good job in educating people about their rights and how to live in love and peace in communities. “Our people have learnt a lot of positive messages today,” she said. “They will also go home and share the information with other people.” Munna Ndi Nnyi’s director, Dr Bardwell Mufunwaini, said that they had moved from the methods of addressing people on issues of domestic violence to stakeholders’ dialogues, where all individuals actively participated in social debates. “In many cases, partners or families are fighting or involved in domestic violence because of lack of communication and understanding among themselves,” he said. In the picture (from left to right) are Dr Bardwell Mufunwaini, Cllr Nnditsheni Mulaudzi and Mr Michael Gumula. Some of the members of the five victim-empowerment programmes in the Thulamela area.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com