News - Date: 14 December 2017 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 224 Green Farms Nut Company (GFNC) hosted their final of three national annual end-of-year functions for the Limpopo region on 1 December at their processing factory in Levubu. More than 150 people attended the event to recognise this year’s successes. “We’re delighted that so many local growers joined us, and would like to thank them for their ongoing support. There is currently no other company in South Africa as heavily invested in the macadamia industry as GFNC. Our new megafactory in Mpumalanga is the largest single processing facility in the world and will be open for the 2018 season. Together with this, our Levubu facility will also be increasing capacity next year. The value we place on our farmers’ support is imperative,” said Jill Whyte, CEO of GFNC at the event. Every year the company runs a competition in each of the regions where they have factories, including Kwazulu Natal, Mpumalanga and Limpopo. In Levubu, growers are recognised in four categories. In the lowest unsound kernel recovery (integrifolia) category, top honours went to Peet van der Walt of Eersteling Boerdery. Hendrik en Pieter Bonnema (Bonnema Trust) came in at second place, while Koos Steyn (Welgevonden Nutty Investors) was third. The lowest unsound kernel recovery (hybrid) category was won by Fanus and Gertien Viviers of Inniberg Belegging. Second place went to Johan van Eeden of Van Eeden J (Vreemdeling), while Frits Ahrens of Ahrens Boerdery was third. In the highest sound kernel recovery (integrifolia) category, brothers Hendrik and Pieter Bonnema scooped up first place. Here, Fanus and Gertien Viviers were second, while Koos Steyn was third. The fourth category, that of highest sound kernel recovery (hybrid), was won by Johan van Eeden, with Danie Basson of Maluma Farming Enterprise 1938 coming in at second place and Mike Collins of Wolkberg Plase third. “2017 has seen the largest ever global crop, which has been supported by the highest prices on record for macadamia nuts. This demonstrates the strength of demand and potential for growth in our industry,” concluded Whyte.  Peet van der Walt (left) of Eersteling Boerdery won the lowest unsound kernel recovery (integrifolia) category. Handing over his prize is Marius Martin (factory manager). Photo supplied. Johan van Eeden (left) receives his certificate for second place in the award for lowest unsound kernel recovery (hybrid). Handing over the prizes was Marius Martin (factory manager). Photo supplied. Pieter Bonnema (left) and brother Hendrik from Bonnema Trust won the highest sound kernel recovery (integrifolia) category and were second in the lowest unsound kernel recovery (integrifolia) category. Handing over the prizes was Marius Martin (factory manager). Photo supplied.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za