News - Date: 09 December 2017 Written by:  / Viewed: 191 “We live in an ever-changing world. New technologies keep coming up and if you don’t want to be left behind, you must keep up with the world which is moving fast. Without education it will be difficult for you to adapt to all these changes.” These are the words of a retired academic and chancellor of the Mokobi Consultancy Training Institute, Mr Amos Mahasela. He was addressing the first batch of students of the institution at a ceremony that took place at the New Nancefield Community Hall, Musina, last Saturday. The achievers received their hard-earned certificates after completing qualifications in intermediate end-user computing, while some received a national certificate in information technology. “With the introduction of computers, the world has changed forever, and you will now be able to use technology to advance your daily lives. The knowledge you gained will also help in increasing your chances of being employed anywhere around the globe.” The director of the institution, Mr David Mokobi said that the students are part of history as they are the first products of the institution. “We are fully registered with the Department of Higher Education and our aim is to equip the community with the much-needed knowledge and skills. We are happy that we are now making a visible contribution towards the eradication of illiteracy in our communities.” One of the students, Miss Surprise Matamela, who completed her intermediate end-user computing course, said that the course has broadened her knowledge of information technology, which she will be able to apply daily. One of the successful graduates, Ms Surprise Matamela receives her certificate from the director of Mokobi Consultancy Training Institute, Mr David Mokobi. Some of the successful graduates photographed during the ceremony. Seated are from left to right: Mr Kenny Ravhuanzwo from Musina Municipality, retired academic and chancellor of Mokobi Consultancy Training Institute, Mr Amos Mahasela, local educator Suzan Lekganyane and the director of the Mokobi Consultancy Training Institute, Mr David Mokobi.  Email: 