Sport - Date: 16 February 2017 Written by: Frank Mavhungu / Viewed: 381 Last weekend marked the starting point of the second round of the National First Division (NFD). Magezi proved that they really meant it when they said they would escape the relegation axe at the end of the season when they held Witbank Spurs to a 2-2 draw at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. The former Black Leopards killer striker, Thembisani Nevhulamba, proved his worth when he scored Magezi’s second goal. This after Silas Maziya had scored the opening goal in the 24th minute. Magezi realized that it was not their day when Nevhulamba missed a fortune late in the game. They were awarded a penalty and Nevhulamba shot wide from the white spot. Magezi moved one step up on the log, following the draw. They are now in the second-last position on the log with 12 points accumulated from 16 outings. In the other NFD matches, Black Leopards came back with the maximum points from their away match against Milano United which at the Athlone Stadium in Cape Town. The full-time score was 2-1. Mziwokuthula Zimu and Khayalihke Shozi scored for Black Leopards while Milano’s solitary goal came via Julius Stemmer. The log leaders, Thanda Royal Zulu, continued to pave their way up by beating Mbombela United 2-1. Cape Town All Stars beat Santos 1-0 at the Athlone Stadium in Cape Town. The University of Pretoria and Amazulu shared the glory, following their 1-1 draw at the Tuks Stadium in Pretoria. Real Kings lost 0-1 to FC Cape Town at the Sugar Ray Xulu Stadium in Durban. Mthatha Bucks and Jomo Cosmos played to a goalless draw at the Mthatha Stadium. Royal Eagles and Stellenbosch FC scored one goal apiece at the Princess Magogo Stadium in Durban. The scorer of Magezi’s second goal, Thembisani Nevhulamba.  Frank is a Human Resources Manager at the Department of Public Works in Limpopo. He is the longest serving correspondent of the Mirror, having joined us at the end of 1990.  He mainly writes sports reports and resides at Tsianda Village. In 2004, Frank won the National Castle League Award, an award for the best reporter in the SAB league in South Africa.  Email: