Sport - Date: 16 February 2017 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 195 Madombidzha Western Stars hammered Zoutpansberg Powerline 4-2 in an MMK Administrators League match at Madabani on Sunday. Stars took the game to their opponents from the first whistle, with their midfielders demonstrating a spirit of commitment by dishing out telling passes to the frontrunners from time to time. They could have sealed the game within the first 10 minutes, but their strikers were not lucky enough to convert their obvious chances into goals. Stars were the first to find the net. Their skilful fast forward, Tshilidzi Leshi, hooked in the ball after a scramble within the box. The youthful Powerline started to display defensive football after conceding the goal. They did not get far with this practice as their coach was heard instructing them to take the game to their opponents. In the second half, Stars were cooling the ball down in the middle of the park, giving their opponents no chance to do as they pleased. Percy Munonoka scored their second goal in the 46th minute after receiving a beautiful pass from Thabelo "Chigi" Netshiendeulu. Stars’ third goal came in the 65th minute, when Netshiendeulu dribbled past three Powerline defenders in a row and scored easily. Powerline were awarded a penalty and Rudzani Nebulu scored from white spot to make the score 3-1. Stars’ Hector Mukwevho put matters beyond doubt when he scored his team's fourth goal in the 77th minute. A Powerline substitute, Jayson Maisha, scored his team’s second goal with a ground cutter. Percy Munonoka of Stars (left) is attacking, while Thomas Machaba attempts to intercept the ball. Rudzani Nebulu of Powerline with the ball and Thabelo Netshiendeulu is running to defend. Rudzani Nebulu of Powerline controls the ball, while Ronewa Nemakhavhani ready to intercept.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za