News - Date: 13 February 2017 Written by: News Correspondent / Viewed: 1926 The council of Musina Local Municipality has appointed Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi as acting municipal manager (MM), following the resignation of Mr Johnson Matshivha last month. Municipal spokesperson Wilson Dzebu confirmed the appointment. He said that Tshiwanammbi would be acting as accounting officer until a new MM was appointed. “We have advertised the position and we hope that it will not take long for us to appoint a suitable candidate. We felt that the municipality cannot operate smoothly without an accounting officer and that is why council appointed Tshiwanammbi to fill Matshivha’s shoes.” Dzebu further thanked Matshivha for his contributions towards the development of the municipality in the past four years. “We acknowledge his hard work and dedication and wish him the best of luck in his future life endeavors. His contributions will always be a special chapter when the book of Musina Local Municipality is written.” Dzebu said the council had faith and confidence in Tshiwanammbi, following his track record at senior management level. “Tshiwanammbi has been the general manager for economic development and planning here in our municipality for the past four years. His experience in local government will certainly take the municipality to a higher level. We have no doubt that, under his leadership, the municipality will continue to deliver the much-needed services to our people.” Tshiwanammbi thanked the municipal council for having faith in him. “I know it will not be an easy task, but I’m ready for the challenges ahead. Despite limited resources, we will work hard to make sure that we meet the needs of our community members out there. No man is an island and I will not be able to do everything on my own. With the current team of dedicated councilors and officials, we will surely realize our vision of building a better Musina for all.” Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi.  Correspondent journalists from all over the region supply us with news and sport articles.  Email: news@zoutnet.co.za