Sport - Date: 16 February 2017 Written by: Frank Mavhungu / Viewed: 220 In their ABC Motsepe League match at the Tshifulanani Stadium on Saturday, Joe Maweja let Giyani Hotspurs off the hook by sharing the spoils with them, following their 2-2 draw. Maweja were leading 2-0, but could not keep the Spurs strikers out of their danger area. The absence of Khongotela Mahlaule and their dribbling wizard, Khumbudzo Muvhango, in the starting line-up did not have much impact on the team’s performance as Maweja managed to play attacking football from the start. They opened their account in the 19th minute after Omphulusa Masotsha headed a free kick home. Maweja could have sealed the game during the first half, but their strikers were unluciky. Maweja were leading 1-0 when the referee blew the half-time whistle. The home side increased the margin in the 57th minute. Thetshelesani Tshipani beat the offside trap and blasted in a rocket from close range. Maweja introduced Pfarelo Ndou and sacrificed Takalani Mashila in the 64th minute. The visitors from Giyani scored their opening goal in the 74th minute. Maweja effected another change to their starting line-up soon afterwards. They replaced Aluwani Matodzi with Lufuno Tshidada. Their effort was not good enough to stop Hotspurs from scoring their second goal. Spurs found the equalizer in the 84th minute. Tinyiko Maluleke tried his luck from the 25-meter area with a volley. The keeper of Maweja watched helplessly as the ball hit the back of the net. Mashudu Mukhari of Maweja protects the ball, while Eric Tshabalala of Hotspurs tries to intercept from behind. Humbelani Nemasetoni of Maweja kicks the ball. Mashudu Makhari of Maweja hooks the ball, while Eric Tshabalala of Hotspurs is on his heels.  Frank is a Human Resources Manager at the Department of Public Works in Limpopo. He is the longest serving correspondent of the Mirror, having joined us at the end of 1990.  He mainly writes sports reports and resides at Tsianda Village. In 2004, Frank won the National Castle League Award, an award for the best reporter in the SAB league in South Africa.  Email: