News in brief - Date: 15 February 2017 Written by: Isabel Venter / Viewed: 20985 *** UPDATE ***  The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued a weather advisory for Limpopo as well as the north eastern KwaZulu-Natal and the Low-veld of Mpumalanga for heavy rain and flooding with average wind speeds of 60 km/h from Thursday night to Saturday. According to SAWS heavy rain can be expected over the following areas: Limpopo: Phalaborwa, Musina, Louis Trichardt, Tzaneen, Mokopane, Polokwane. KwaZulu-Natal: St. Lucia, Jozini, Vryheid. Mpumalanga: Kruger National Park, Nelspruit, Lydenburg, Skukuza, Barberton, Komatipoort. TAKE NOTE: This forecast is subject to change as these systems are extremely hard to predict. It has change so much over the past 48 hours and could change again.     Tropical cyclone Dineo, with 80 knots or 160 km/h winds is expected to reach the Limpopo province on Thursday. The storm will touch the coastline of Mozambique on Wednesday night, moving westward and affecting the northeastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal and the Lowveld of Mpumalanga, reported the South African National Weather Service. The weather service said the tropical storm is expected to affect people in the northern parts of Gauteng. People in the eastern and central parts of Limpopo and Mpumalanga are advised to take precautions against inclement weather. Dineo will hit Mozambique's coastline before it reaches South Africa. Dineo grew rapidly from a tropical disturbance on Monday to a severe tropical storm yesterday. The latest evidence suggests that it may grow even stronger. A former resident of Louis Trichardt, Mr Brian Jefferies, posted details about the storm. “The storm is picking up now, and it started to rain,” wrote Brian. He is currently living in the Inhambane province of Mozambique at Praia de Jangamo. Read full article here A tropical storm touched the shores in Mozambique, early on Wednesday morning at Jeff's Palm Resort in Praia de Jangamo.  Photo: Brian Jefferies. A tropical storm touched the shores in Mozambique, early on Wednesday morning at Jeff's Palm Resort in Praia de Jangamo.  Photo: Brian Jefferies.  Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. She holds a BA Degree in Communication Sciences from the University of South Africa. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting.  Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.za