News - Date: 02 July 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 50The longstanding feud between the Nesengani Development Committee and the Nesengani royal council, tribal council and royal family appears to be far from over.On Monday, hundreds of angry residents from villages under the Nesengani traditional authority marched for some kilometres from their homes and invaded the royal offices at Tshino in the Vuwani area. The residents were up in arms against their rulers, saying they were a stumbling block to&nbsp;development in the area.Their point of contention is an R8 million sport centre that was allegedly promised by the Department of Rural Development in honour of one of their late employees, who resided in the village. The traditional leadership in the area is blamed for having delayed the issuing of permission to occupy a site where the centre is to be built.According to residents, the centre will benefit the whole community, especially the youth who will have a place for entertainment. They camped at the tribal offices until late in the evening, waiting for their demands to be met.The protest brought back memories of the municipal demarcation impasse that stalled all services in the area. Businesses and other activities came to a complete halt in the area during the protest action by the residents.Since 2012, a standoff has developed between the residents and traditional leadership, who refuses to give permission to occupy&nbsp;a site to be used for the facility.Community leader Mr Alex Ndou, who led the marchers and other structures in the villages, said they had&nbsp;been very patient for a long time as they hoped that the issue would be solved but to their dismay, the people involved were dragging their&nbsp;feet. &quot;This is a development that would benefit the whole community. It will have almost all the facilities that could be of use to the youth and the elderly in villages, but some greedy leaders who have no foresight are blocking this much-needed facility. As a community, we have engaged many stakeholders, including the office of the king, but we have not received any help. We are now saying that we have had enough and we will not leave this place until these people listen to our plight,&quot; said Ndou.The traditional leadership and their council who were there refused to comment, saying they were there at the instruction&nbsp;of their elders and that they should report to them before issuing a statement.Just before going to press, Limpopo Mirror learnt that the residents committee and the tribal structures had reached an amicable solution and that copies of the permission to occupy the site were handed over to the residents, resolving a violent situation that was brewing in the area.Part of the huge crowd that gathered at the Nesengani tribal offices on Monday.The message is loud and clear...Community leader Mr Alex Ndou adresses&nbsp;the impatient crowd that was waiting for&nbsp;feedback from a meeting of residents&#39; leaders and traditional leaders. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: