News - Date: 16 July 2017Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 653The Revelation Christian Church at Pfananani village in Ha-Mulima recently hosted a virginity preservation event under the auspices of Women of Honour.Women of Honour is a virginity initiative by Revelation Christian Church, the University of Limpopo, and supporters and participants from the Vhembe, Capricorn and Mopani districts. The event was attended by at least 200 young girls and boys.&ldquo;This project has benefited many young girls, so that they remain celibate and honour their virginal&nbsp;status,&rdquo; said the project founder, Revelation Christian Church&#39;s Pastor Samuel Fumadi. &ldquo;We instil a sense of well-being among girls, so that they have more time to focus on school work and build&nbsp;their future instead of shifting their thinking and minds to sexual relationships which may sway their dreams in wrong directions.&rdquo;A 34-year-old virgin, Cynthia Mkhabele, who is a Law lecturer at the University of Venda, joined Women of Honour in 2010. &ldquo;Since then I have never looked back,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I am proud be a Woman of Honour.&rdquo;Mkhabele said that she also wanted&nbsp;the girls and boys to take theirs studies seriously to make it in life. &ldquo;Never allow bullying, peer pressure, failure, rejection and family background to discourage you,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I was once called gay by friends, but that never made me gay. Choose friends who support your choice.&rdquo;Mufunwa Rasisi (19) is a proud young girl&nbsp;who is a first-year student at the University of Venda. She said a life of being a virgin has been one of challenges and choices. &ldquo;I am happy that I have a strong and supportive family,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I am a proud virgin and I plan to keep my virginity until I get married. Virginity is my pride.&rdquo;Ms Takalani Mashamba, a representative from the University of Limpopo, said that the project formed part of community engagement within the School of Health Care Science. &ldquo;We strive for the prevention of the spread of HIV and AIDS, teenage pregnancy, sexual d&eacute;but postponement among the youth, community development and keeping a child at school for a longer period,&rdquo; she said.All those interested in this project are welcome to contact Pastor Samuel Fumadi at 072 226 3425.Photographed during the event are (backrow, from left to right) Ms Takalani Mashamba, Pastor Edward Mannzhi, Pastor Muyahavho Famadi and Pastor Samuel Famadi. Front row: Mufunwa Rasisi, Tshililo Phadziri, Prudence Hlungwani, Muofhe Ramadi and Cynthia Mkhabele.Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror&#39;s youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first&nbsp;book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life&nbsp;was published in 2014.Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com