Sport - Date: 01 July 2017 Written by: Frank Mavhungu / Viewed: 240 Several clubs were fined for charges ranging from assaulting match officials to causing the abandonment of a game during the disciplinary committee meeting for the Safa Vhembe Regional Association held at the league’s offices last Friday evening. Tshilamusi Super Eagles were the hardest hit. They were charged with assault of match officials, damaging the match official’s referee’s kit and failure to provide adequate security to the match officials. The case relates to an incident during their match against Berea FC at the Tshilamusi grounds three months ago. Super Eagles were found guilty and fined R7 000. Apart from the financial sanction, Eagles were ordered to compensate the referee for his damaged kit. They also forfeited the match points to Berea FC. Nzhelele Young All Nations were found guilty of causing the abandonment of their game against Mauluma Black Mambas at the Nzhelele grounds last month. They were ordered to pay a fine of R4 000. They also forfeited the match points to Black Mambas. Mauluma Black Mambas were found guilty of failure to provide an alternative soccer kit in their match against Nzhelele Home Sweepers at the Nzhelele grounds. A fine of R3 000 was imposed on them and the points for the match were forfeited to Home Sweepers. Maelula New Mates were found guilty of failure to paint the goal posts in their match against Matanda Rockers at the Maelula grounds. They were ordered to pay a fine of R3 000 and the points for the match were forfeited to Matanda Rockers. Mpheni Home Defenders have reason to celebrate. They were acquitted on a charge of fielding an improperly registered player in their promotional play-off match against Mikhado FC at the Thohoyandou Stadium two weeks ago.  Frank is a Human Resources Manager at the Department of Public Works in Limpopo. He is the longest serving correspondent of the Mirror, having joined us at the end of 1990.  He mainly writes sports reports and resides at Tsianda Village. In 2004, Frank won the National Castle League Award, an award for the best reporter in the SAB league in South Africa.  Email: