News - Date: 21 July 2017Written by: Isabel Venter / Viewed: 84Getting immediate counselling after becoming the victim of crime or any other type of traumatic event is of crucial importance.Trauma can involve single incidents, such as a rape, a car accident, witnessing a robbery or, like in a recent case, where a young mother of three survived a botched armed robbery. The newspaper reported on the attack that happened along Leeu Street a fortnight ago.The young woman was stabbed in the leg by an unknown assailant while she was out walking for exercise. She fought off her attacker by hitting him in the face with a stick and simply refusing to yield to his attempts to drag her into the nearby bushes. Her attacker did, however, manage&nbsp;to stab her in the leg before fleeing from the scene.&nbsp;After the woman&rsquo;s ordeal, local volunteers offered to assist her with some much-needed counselling.One of these volunteers also spoke to the newspaper with some advice regarding the benefits of counselling, especially after a traumatic event.In the South African context, not only the prevalence of crime&nbsp;leads to trauma, but also the hearing of stories of escalating levels of seemingly senseless violence and crime.&nbsp;In addition, trauma may result in adverse psychological effects in both the victim and his or her family. This may include post-traumatic stress reactions, anger, depression and strained relationships with friends, family and strangers.&nbsp;Individuals, families and communities that have dealt with the psychosocial aftermath&nbsp;of violence and trauma are better equipped to resolve differences/conflicts&nbsp;and deal with difficulties without resorting to violence, which in turn translates into greater social cohesion and a more peaceful society.In order to address the needs of our traumatised nation, it is essential that easily accessible psychosocial facilities be made available to the many victims impacted.&nbsp;Victim-empowerment strategies are critically important, even though such strategies are often devalued&nbsp;and viewed simply as &#39;remedial&#39; measures that occur after the fact and which contribute little or nothing to prevention.In reality, repeated exposure to violence - untreated and unresolved &ndash; can turn into learned behaviour, which means that today&rsquo;s victim can possibly become tomorrow&rsquo;s perpetrator. Emotional symptoms of trauma may include anger, irritability, mood swings, guilt, shame and self-blame. The symptoms can also manifest physically as insomnia, nightmares, edginess and agitation and even muscle tension.Symptoms and feelings can typically last from a few days to a few months, gradually fading as the victim processes the trauma. But even then the victim might be troubled from time to time by painful memories or emotions.Locally, there are several options available to get help. Sometimes the easiest way is to approach your church leader. He or she can refer you to a specialist trauma counsellor or even a psychologist.Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. She holds a BA Degree in Communication Sciences from the University of South Africa. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting.Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.za