News - Date: 06 July 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 2439A young man who broke into a house and stabbed a 17-year-old girl to death in November last year, was sentenced to life imprisonment in the Giyani Magistrate&rsquo;s Court last Friday.Tshedza Tshikovhi (23) from Nhlavulani Village was sentenced to life imprisonment on the murder charge. The court also sentenced him to ten years imprisonment for attempted murder, ten years for burglary and 15 years for the robbery.The deceased, Surprise Nkuna (17) was a grade 11 pupil at Mukula Secondary School when Tshikovhi broke a window and entered the house where she was staying with her younger sister and brother. The incident took place at Nhlavulani village on November 25 last year, at about midnight. Nkuna was stabbed several times and died as a result of the wounds sustained. Tshikovhi also stole her cell phone.The deceased&rsquo;s mother, Ms Elizabeth Mabasa, praised the court for sending Tshikovhi to jail for life. She said that her daughter was very focused on education. &ldquo;I expected her to complete her studies, so that she could help the family. Nkuna never quarrelled with anyone and she easily associated herself with people,&rdquo; she added.&ldquo;The brutal death of my daughter still hurts me so much. Even when I looked at the convict before the&nbsp;court had sentenced him, I was unsure of what to do,&rdquo; she said.Mabasa said it was true that her daughter would not come back, but she was satisfied with the court&rsquo;s judgement. &ldquo;He deserves to rot in jail,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Justice was served and hopefully this will be a lesson to other killers who are taking advantage and killed innocent people,&rdquo; said Mabasa.The deceased, Surprise Nkuna.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za