News - Date: 01 July 2017Written by: Frank Mavhungu / Viewed: 28Last Tuesday was a memorable day for the Tsiamutsha Drop-In&nbsp;Centre&#39;s children. The centre received a donation of goods ranging from blankets and a&nbsp;green board to a trampoline to the value of more than R15 000 from Eskom.The event was held at the Tsianda Grinding Mills&#39; premises. A representative from Eskom, Mr Shadrack Munyangane, said that the donation was testimony to the fact that his company was always ready to land a helping hand to community development projects. He appealed to the management of the centre to ensure that the goods were utilized for the purpose which they were donated for.A local traditional leader, Vhamusanda Vho-NW Mashamba, praised Eskom for responding positively to the request for the donation from the centre. According to him, the local territorial council had&nbsp;recently given the Tsiamutsha Drop-In Centre a site. He appealed to Eskom and other institutions to assist the centre with funds towards the construction of a building at the new site.The centre is currently operating at the premises of the Tsianda Grinding Mills. The centre manager, Ms Audrey Kgole, said that the centre was established in 2011. It caters for needy children between the ages of 5 and 19 from Tsianda and Hamutsha villages. At present, they cater for 61 children.Some of the children, together with some of the centre employees and the dignitaries, pose for a photo with some of the donated items during the ceremony.Mr Rofhiwa Netshisaulu from Eskom (left) hands over some of the blankets to the centre manager, Ms Audrey Kgole (middle), while Mr Aifheli Dombo (second from left), Vhamusanda Vho-NW Mashamba (second from right) and Cllr Jeffrey Masutha look on. Frank is a Human Resources Manager at the Department of Public Works in Limpopo. He is the longest serving correspondent of the Mirror, having joined us at the end of 1990.&nbsp; He mainly writes sports reports and resides at Tsianda Village. In 2004, Frank won the National Castle League Award, an award for the best reporter in the SAB league in South Africa.Email: