News - Date: 12 May 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 328The well-known soccer guru and former Black Leopards coach, Mr Donald &quot;Bizza&quot; Ramabulana (57), was buried at Tshiendeulu Tshavhakolo last Friday. He passed away on 28 April at Siloam&nbsp;Hospital after a short illness.Among the mourners who attended the funeral were the former Black Leopards chairperson, Mr Zacharia Mathelemusa, former players and owners of many teams around Vhembe.The news of his death&nbsp;sent shockwaves through the community he served throughout his life. According to several observers, Ramabulana has left a void in the soccer fraternity. During his life, he served as coach of Tshikuwi Stone Breakers, Gogobole Bucs, Mpheni&nbsp;Home Defenders and Black Leopards.His younger brother, Mr Simon Ramabulana, said that the family members were in great pain after losing one of their beloved members. He said the family was proud of&nbsp;having produced &ldquo;one of the most valuable members of the community.&rdquo; Ramabulana said that Donald had played a big role in uplifting the standard of soccer and education in the local community.Mr Zacharia Mathelemusa, a former player&nbsp;of Black Leopards, said the football family had lost one of its pillars who had always worked hard towards the development of soccer. &quot;The whole area was shocked when we heard of his untimely death,&quot; he added. Mathelemusa described Ramabulana as a brave leader who helped young ones and who was loyal to the community and team and to his soccer family.The chairperson of Mpheni Home Defenders, Mr Nathaniel Thavhiwa, expressed his condolences to the grieving family. &ldquo;Donald&rsquo;s death is not only loss to his family, but to the community and the soccer family as whole. It is sad that he passed away while he still had a lot to contribute to football,&rdquo; Thavhiwa said. He described Donald as a community builder and coach &quot;who was larger than life&quot;.Mr Ramabulana is survived by his wife, six children, brothers and parents.Family members carry the coffin of the late Donald Ramabulana.Mr Donald &quot;Bizza&quot; Ramabulana.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za