News - Date: 07 May 2017Written by: Prudence Bopape / Viewed: 2101Dr Ndivhuwo Muneri, a former learner fof Murunwa Private School in Louis Trichardt, had to overcome more than one obstacle before she earned her PhD in biochemistry from the University of Stellenbosch.She comes from Ha-Maelula, outside Louis Trichardt.She says that she is grateful for her family, who travelled more than 1 800 kilometres to celebrate with her when she received her PhD. She also extends her gratitude to her husband, Tshililo Nnditsheni, for his love, support and patience, and the rest of her family while she was still a struggling undergraduate.It took Muneri close to 12 difficult years to achieve this milestone in her life. Not only did she have to adapt to a completely different culture and learn&nbsp;in a third language, but during the final year of her MSc she was involved in a hit-and-run accident and left for dead.Her determination to obtain a qualification and complete her studies becomes clear when she explains how she came to focus on biochemistry.&nbsp;&quot;Of all my undergraduate modules, biochemistry was the most challenging module. As a result, I started focusing more on the subject, which then led me to understand it better and to do a BSc Hons in biochemistry,&quot; she says.Prof Erick Strauss, her supervisor, only has praise for this student who took five years to complete her BSc degree, but only four years for her PhD.In an interview with Limpopo Mirror, Muneri said &quot;It has been a long road to success and I am&nbsp;glad to have reached my&nbsp;goal. I am now ready and more than equipped with broader knowledge to conquer the world in the science field&nbsp;as well as motivate and encourage women power in the rural area.&quot;Her advice to learners and undergraduate students facing similar challenges is to &quot;dream, be patient and have a vision, no matter how difficult or impossible life seems to be. Concentrate on your studies and stay focused. There are many detractors on the way and instant gratification. Vision takes longer to reach, but is wonderful once achieved.&quot;Photographed after the ceremony where Dr Muneri received her doctorate. In front are Ms Sylvia Muneri (mother), Dr Ndivhuwo Muneri, Mr Thomas Muneri (father), Mr Maanda Muneri (brother) and Khumbudzo Muneri (sister-in-law). In the back are Prof Phillip Kutama, Mr Nnditsheni Tshililo (husband) and Prof&nbsp;Erick Strauss (supervisor). Photo supplied.The 22-year-old Prudence Bopape from Ha-Masia village joined the Zoutnet newsroom as an intern on the 1st of February 2017.&nbsp;Prudence completed her Bachelor of Arts degree, specialising in communications, at the Northwest University. She is an avid reader and believes that a good reader makes an excellent writer. &quot;I believe that determination is the is the key to excellence,&rdquo; she says.&nbsp;Email: