News - Date: 19 May 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 336Community members of Ramantsha village paid their last respects to well-known businessman, politician and community leader&nbsp;Mr George Negota (66), who was laid to rest at the Ramantsha cemetery last Saturday. He passed away in the Gordon Park Hospital in Parktown on 7 May.The news of his death sent shockwaves through the community he had served throughout his life. Mourners from all over the country attended the funeral and many marched from the Negota house to the Ramantsha graveyard. All speakers described Negota as a pioneer, a born leader and a man of vision.Mr Khangala Negota, son of the deceased, said the family had suffered a great loss with the death of their father. &quot;It is painful to lose an intelligent father, but we thank God because He does everything for a reason.&rdquo; He thanked the community for their support.A friend and former minister, Mr Sydney Mufamadi, said that Negota&nbsp;had&nbsp;been a &ldquo;soldier&rdquo; for the bigger part of his adult life. &ldquo;He was one of those men who fought for development in the prime of his life and excelled at everything he did. He will be remembered for his dedication and commitment to the political movement of our people, as ruling party member and for his vision and tenacity as businessman and politician.&rdquo; Mufamadi said the contributions of Negota would remain to be seen, as he was a patriot&nbsp;who justified the cause of the struggle for the emancipation of mankind from all forms of slavery.&ldquo;George pursued the struggle to open the doors of learning to the youth of our country. The nation is in deep mourning as we have lost one of the giants of the struggle who still had a lot to offer for the development of the community,&rdquo; said Mufamadi.Mufamadi said that although the family, friends and government accepted what had happened, it would be difficult to forget that this death had robbed the community of an energetic leader who was full of zeal and courage. He is survived by his wife and three children.&nbsp;Mr&nbsp;George Negota.Friends carry&nbsp;the coffin of the late Mr&nbsp;George Negota.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za