News - Date: 20 May 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 431A 43-year-old resident of Gogobole village allegedly stabbed and badly injured&nbsp;his wife before hanging himself on Monday. The wife is currently fighting for her life at the Louis Trichardt Memorial hospital.The news of the incident spread like wildfire and within short space of time people from the surrounding areas were gathering at the scene. According to the spokesperson for the Tshilwavhusiku SAPS, W/O David Nkanyane, the deceased is Mr Wonderful Machaba (43).Nkanyane said that the circumstances leading to the tragedy were still sketchy, but it was suspected that the man had accused his wife of having another lover. He apparently stabbed her and afterwards hanged himself. &ldquo;We have opened an attempted murder and inquest case,&rdquo; said W/O Nkanyane.&ldquo;We would like to urge people to desist from violence in the event of misunderstandings. They should rather try to resolve their disputes in an amicable manner, or opt for counselling to avoid unnecessary loss of life,&rdquo; said Nkanyane.According to a source from within the community who prefers to be anonymous, the accused received information that his wife was having a love affair with another man. Machaba had just returned from Johannesburg, where he works. The source said it seemed as if the fight had started inside the house, as a bloodied knife was found in the house.&nbsp;&ldquo;It seems as if he stabbed her in the house, but she managed to run outside. She fell and that was when he took a sharp object to chop her.&rdquo;Mr Bardwell Mufunwaini of the Munna Ndi Nnyi Men&rsquo;s Forum condemned the killing. &ldquo;This is a very sad day for all the people. We are here talking of reconciliation, but here is a man who goes all out to kill his wife in the most gruesome way. It gives a bad name to all men, and this is in spite of all the campaigns by the government and non-governmental organizations that are taking place. Men are still the perpetrators of violence against women and children,&rdquo; he said.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za