News - Date: 12 May 2017Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 140The well-known leader of the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco), James &ldquo;Malambane&rdquo; Delekisa (65), passed away after a short illness at his home in Midoroni last Wednesday.A brother, Mr Ishmael Delekisa, said that the family members were extremely shocked about his death and that it would be difficult to cope without his knowledge and guidance. &ldquo;It is important to acknowledge the community support we have received since hearing the bad news,&rdquo; he said.He said that his brother was a mentor, an icon of hope, a role model and a true leader. &ldquo;He was a visionary, a manager, an organizer and a trustworthy human being, whose desire to serve his community motivated him to work hard. As an individual, he had the love of his community at heart,&rdquo; he saidCllr Samuel Tshifura&nbsp;said that although the family, friends and government had&nbsp;accepted what had happened, it would be difficult to forget that his death had robbed the community of an energetic leader who was full of zeal and courage. He described Delekisa as a brave politician who was loyal to the community and to his fellow man. &quot;He was a responsible man, who was concerned about the safety of every South African citizen,&quot; said Tshifura. He described the death of Delekisa as a terrible blow to the community of Limpopo.In a message of condolence, Thovhele Vho-Vele Kutama said that he was deeply saddened and shocked &quot;by the untimely death of an honest, competent and dependable servant of the people.&quot; He described Delekisa as &quot;an organic intellectual who will be sorely missed.&quot; He added that the community would always remember Delekisa&rsquo;s contribution to the development of the community.&ldquo;He has been our ambassador and Limpopo province and we are shocked by his sudden departure. I would like to extend our condolences to the bereaved family and assure them of our unending support during this trying moment. It is difficult for all of us to accept what happened, but we must also understand that God does His will in His own time.&rdquo;Mr Delekisa will be buried on Saturday at Midoroni. The service will start at 06:00.Mr James Delekisa.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za