News - Date: 01 May 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1301While&nbsp;the rest of the country is enjoying the different communication media, such as cell phones, &nbsp;and lately the introduction of various social media, some villages in the Vhembe district have been left out for years.The villages of Mpandoni, Duvhuledza, Mubvumoni and Tshimbolimbo have experienced a total lack of network coverage since the introduction of cell phone technology in South Africa.Community spokesperson Mashudu Ralukukwe said these communities had&nbsp;a population of more than 30 000 residents who were all deprived of the chance to connect with the world around them. &quot;The lack of network coverage is seriously affecting our everyday lives, including business opportunities and job opportunities for graduates.&quot;He added that they had&nbsp;discussed the problem&nbsp;with several stakeholders in hope of receiving a positive response.&nbsp;&quot;We have suffered a lot in this regard and when one of the cell phones giants, Vodacom, promised to build a tower in our area, we were filled with joy, knowing that our problems would be history. However, we have been waiting for far too long,&quot; said Ralukukwe.He further indicated that he had personally assisted the cell phone giant to acquire land for the tower, but the processes were taking too long, while the community continued to suffer. &quot;I have contacted Vodacom several times concerning this issue, but all in vain. The response&nbsp;that I receive from them includes excuses that they are waiting for the aviation and environmental assessors to validate the building of the tower.&rdquo;He also added that the lack of network was&nbsp;also helping crime to increase in their area and &ldquo;there are deaths that could have been averted, but we could not contact the emergency services.&nbsp;We have lost many job opportunities as a result of the lack of a network,&quot; added Ralukukwe.Mashudu Mudau, a villager, said two giant towers had been constructed in 1996, but the community had&nbsp;not benefited from them. &ldquo;These giant structures have now become a danger to the community. They do not have lights and could fall at any time as they are not serviced,&quot; he said.Vodacom spokesperson&nbsp;Mr Byron Kennedy said they had&nbsp;prioritised the area and that a site would be constructed by December this year. &quot;We have met the traditional authorities in the area and we have made a commitment to build a base station in the area,&quot; he said.&nbsp;Community members have to make phone calls at an identified spot in the village where there is reception. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: