News - Date: 28 May 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 203The mood at Tshiluvhi Full Service School in Thohoyandou was one of joy and jubilation last Wednesday.This was during the handover of an Avbob Foundation Container Library to the school. The library was presented to the school by Avbob&rsquo;s CEO, Mr Frik Rademan.Rademan said that his company had&nbsp;been involved in many social investments initiatives, but they thought at long last of giving something that could last for a long time and&nbsp;that was when the idea of libraries came into being. &ldquo;We have invested millions in this project and we are aiming for 50 containers in five years. This is the 41st in the country and the fourth in Limpopo.&rdquo;Each container costs around R500 000 and they also brought along more than 2 500 books. &ldquo;We are in talks with the Department of Education, with the hope that something will come out of the talks and more books will be made available for this library. We do not just give these away, but we do random surveys and identify needy areas like this one. We will continue this for the benefit of our disadvantaged communities,&rdquo; he said.School principal&nbsp;Ms Shumani Nefale said they had&nbsp;an enrolment of more than 1 300, with pupils from Grade R to 7 at the school and most of them are from the surrounding villages. &ldquo;Most of them go home late in the afternoon and they would be just playing and roaming around the school playing ground with nothing to do. With this donation, they would have somewhere to spend their time, reading books and doing their assignments,&rdquo; she said.Nefale further indicated that the only library in Thohoyandou was far away, which was also dangerous for the kids to walk to the place on foot. &ldquo;We are very excited as most of these children depend on grants and cannot afford to buy books. They will benefit a lot and we lack words enough to thank Avbob for the donation,&rdquo; she said.A good start for the kids. Pupils enjoy reading the new books at their library under the supersvision of Avbob CEO Mr Frik Rademan (left), Principal Shumani Nefale and Vhembe curriculum coordinator&nbsp;Mr Tshiphiri Luvhimbi.&nbsp;Cutting the ribbon during the handing over of the library are, from left to right, Avbob CEO Mr Frik Rademan, Tshiluvhi principal Ms Shumani Nefale, Mmvudi circuit manager&nbsp;Ms Ndivhuho Ramovha, Vhembe district curriculum coordinator Mr Tshiphiri Luvhimbi and learners. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: