News - Date: 08 May 2017Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 533The mood was one of joy and rejoicing when the Limpopo Circuit of the Church of the Holy Ghost hosted a farewell function for the centenary torch last Saturday.The torch, which is part of the church&#39;s 100-year&nbsp;celebrations, will be moving throughout the country from circuit to circuit, having started its journey in March this year.The Limpopo Circuit received the torch a week ago and it left this part of the country after a week. The farewell function was held at the Rovhonetshelwa Branch at Ha-Budeli outside Thohoyandou.&nbsp;The event was attended by members of other churches, the leadership of the church and government officials. The torch ceremony is a build-up to the main event to be held from 11 to 18 June this year.Ms Thembisile Ngiba, centenary conference director, said that the church grew from a small number of 60 members, who received the Holy Ghost on 17 June 1917 in Durban, to thousands of branches in the whole country. &ldquo;We are also impacting positively in communities where we assist in education. We also donated funds towards the building of the Mandela Children&#39;s Hospital and will continue doing so as expected of us,&quot; she said.According to her, the torch was also to honour veterans who had&nbsp;passed on and those alive who started the work of God in the different areas, namely Deacon John Kubayi and the late Deacon Gideon Mudau. She said it also served&nbsp;to remind the members that the main magnificent celebratory event was just around the corner and that they should prepare themselves.Cllr Thina Mbedzi from the Vhembe District Municipality&nbsp;said that, as part of the government, they were humbled to be associated with the church. &quot;Government needs prayers and this is the right place to be. We are very excited to have been part of the celebrations. We wish the church well during their main celebrations,&quot; she said.Rev Nathaniel Mudau, one of the church leaders, said that it was very exciting to be able to celebrate 100 years of the church&#39;s existence in their lifetime.The Church of the Holy Ghost was established on 17 June 1917 in Stanger, KwaZulu-Natal, by the spiritual leader, Archbishop Paulos Mfunwa Nzuza.Ms Thembisile Ngiba, centenary conference director (left), Rev Nathaniel Mudau (second from left), Cllr Thina Mbedzi (third from left) and other church members, photographed with the torch.Church leader Rev Nathaniel Mudau leads dignitaries from the church. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: