News - Date: 20 May 2017Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 628In what appears to be very confusing circumstances, a young man was shot dead by a motorist. It seems as if the motorist was stopped by a group of people patrolling the streets to keep the area safe, but the motorist thought that he was being attacked and opened fire.According to the spokesperson for the Waterval police, W/O Foster Rambau, the incident happened on Saturday night at Mpheni village. The community apparently took it upon themselves to patrol the village&rsquo;s streets at night. In most cases groups of men do such duties.A 67-year-old male pensioner, Mr Edwin Mabovho, was apparently driving in the streets of Mpheni when he was stopped by a group of men who wielded pangas and other weapons. According to W/O Rambau the man was shocked when seeing the men carrying weapons and thought they were robbers. &ldquo;He then opened fire and killed one of the men patrolling the area,&rdquo; Rambau said. &ldquo;This is an unfortunate case and we urge community members to refrain from acts of grouping themselves together and carrying weapons, saying they are fighting possible crime.&rdquo;The deceased was identified as the 23-year-old Mr Amandla Khumalo.Mr Mabovho appeared in the Waterval Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on 15 May and his case was postponed to 22 May for a bail application.In another case, a 24-year-old man, Norman Mahlaule, was arrested for being in possession of dagga and nyaope at Elim on Saturday. He was released on Monday after paying a R500 admission-of-guilt&nbsp;fine.&ldquo;There are more people selling nyaope around Elim and that has become a concern among parents who do not wish their children to get exposed to these drugs,&rdquo; said Rambau. &ldquo;We warn all nyaope dealers to stop selling it and using it, as it is against the law.&rdquo;Norman Mahlaule&nbsp;was arrested for being in possession of dagga and nyaope at Elim on Saturday.&nbsp;Picture supplied.Dagga and nyaope.Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror&#39;s youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first&nbsp;book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life&nbsp;was published in 2014.Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com