News - Date: 22 May 2017Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 432The residents of Mammburu village at Tshituni can now collect water right in their village, instead of fetching it from a nearby stream and springs. This is partly due to an investment by EFF members and a local resident, who had dug a well.In January this year the Limpopo Mirror reported on how one resident of the village, Mr Phineas Madaela, dug a well in his yard, using a pick and shovel. Once he had finished it and found water, he declared it free for use by the community. He also requested interested business people and individuals to assist in getting a water pump and tanks, so that more community members could then access the water.The Economic Freedom Fighters&rsquo; representative, Mr Ntanganedzeni Mutshinyali, took up the challenge and the party offered to erect a pipeline from Madaela&rsquo;s yard to a central place where they would place some tanks and 12 communal taps for a water station. &ldquo;We will also add one more borehole,&rdquo; he said. According to him, they have created short-term employment for 10 residents who are working on the pipeline.Mutshinyali was very critical about the Vhembe and Makhado municipalities, alleging that their representatives had tried to dissuade the community from accepting the help of the EFF. &ldquo;They told residents that they should only accept service delivery from the municipalities and nowhere else, and that they should stop us, so that the municipalities may carry over,&rdquo; Mutshinyali said. &ldquo;We were not happy about that and we felt that we needed to acquire a go-ahead letter from the local traditional leader&rsquo;s office, stating that we were the ones carrying out the project.&rdquo;Mutshinyali said that the EFF were not into cheap tricks to recruit people. &ldquo;All we are doing is offering service delivery to communities,&rdquo; he said. He added that once they were done with the water installation, they would hire an expert to conduct a water analysis to ensure that the water was suitable for human consumption.The resident who initiated the whole project, Phineas Madaela, thanked Limpopo Mirror for publishing the story. &ldquo;We accept help from people without considering their political affiliation,&rdquo; Madaela said. &ldquo;Whether the help comes from EFF or the current municipalities, we will always accept it. All we need is service delivery.&rdquo;Mr&nbsp;Phineas Madaela is seen in this picture at the well&nbsp;he had&nbsp;dug.Chris Majola, Jerry Khumalo and Tshikhakhisi Nenzhelele are among the 10 residents who were temporarily employed at the water station project.Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror&#39;s youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first&nbsp;book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life&nbsp;was published in 2014.Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com